"Taffy, Taffy, where are you?" cried Scott. Scott knew that Taffy liked to dig in the dirt. "I know where Taffy is," he thought. "He is digging where they are building the new road." Scott raced past the dump trucks. He saw Taffy chasing a mole.  The mole ducked into a hole. Taffy barked and began to dig. Dirt flew everywhere. Taffy and Scott were lost in a cloud of dust. When the dust settled, the mole was gone. Then Scott saw the bone. "Look, Taffy. You found a bone," Scott cried. But Taffy didn't care. He didn't even mind when Scott took the bone. Scott had a feeling that there was something special about this bone. "Taffy, Taffy, where are you?" cried Scott. Scott knew that Taffy liked to dig in the dirt. "I know where Taffy is," he thought. "He is digging where they are building the new road." Scott raced past the dump trucks. He saw Taffy chasing a mole.  The mole ducked into a hole. Taffy barked and began to dig. Dirt flew everywhere. Taffy and Scott were lost in a cloud of dust. When the dust settled, the mole was gone. Then Scott saw the bone. "Look, Taffy. You found a bone," Scott cried. But Taffy didn't care. He didn't even mind when Scott took the bone. Scott had a feeling that there was something special about this bone. "Taffy, Taffy, where are you?" cried Scott. Scott knew that Taffy liked to dig in the dirt. "I know where Taffy is," he thought. "He is digging where they are building the new road." Scott raced past the dump trucks. He saw Taffy chasing a mole.  The mole ducked into a hole. Taffy barked and began to dig. Dirt flew everywhere. Taffy and Scott were lost in a cloud of dust. When the dust settled, the mole was gone. Then Scott saw the bone. "Look, Taffy. You found a bone," Scott cried. But Taffy didn't care. He didn't even mind when Scott took the bone. Scott had a feeling that there was something special about this bone. Scott went home. He washed the bone and showed it to his parents. They were surprised. "This is a special bone! It is very heavy," said his father. "I think it is a fossil. It is a bone that has been under ground for millions of years and has turned into rock." "Wow! A fossil- a real fossil!" Scott was excited. His mother said, "Why don't you take the fossil on your trip to the science museum? You can show it to a paleontologist." "What's a paleontologist?" asked Scott. "Paleontologists are scientists who study fossils. They work to understand what life on Earth was like millions of years ago." "Maybe my fossil is a bone from a real dinosaur," Scott thought. That night Scott dreamed of huge dinosaurs. Two days later, Scott carried the fossil to the museum.  Dr. Irene Lewis, a paleontologist, was waiting for the class. She led them into a room filled with skeletons of dinosaurs. Dr. Lewis carefully opened Scott's paper bag. She took out the fossil. She looked surprised and excited. "Where did you find this?" she asked. Scott answered, "My dog Taffy dug it up near the new road." Dr. Lewis told the children that this fossil was a dinosaur's toe bone. She asked them to help her find out which dinosaur it came from. They all wanted to help very much. "Look at each dinosaur. Try to match the toe bone," she said. Scott looked at the feet of the huge Diplodocus. "These toe bones are too big," he decided. "How about the Tyrannosaurus Rex? It has huge teeth and pointed toe bones," said Scott's friend Julie. "No, this toe bone is square," answered Scott. The children looked at the dinosaurs one by one. Then Scott noticed the skeleton of a Hadrosaur. He looked at the toe bones. Then he shouted, "Here it is! This is my Dinosaur." Dr. Lewis smiled. "You're right, Scott." "Wow!" said Scott. "But what did it look like? How tall was it? What did it eat? Was it friendly?" he asked. "Wait, wait. Ask one question at a time." said Dr. Lewis. "First, the Hadrosaur's mouth was flat, like a duck's bill. Hadrosaurs are also called duckbills or duckbill dinosaurs. Second, the toe bone you found is large. It came from an adult. This dinosaur was over 10 meters long, or about as long as a bus. Finally, duckbill dinosaurs lived in herds and ate plants, like cows do now." "Imagine a whole herd of dinosaurs- all as big as a bus!" Scott gasped. "Come over here and I'll show you another kind of fossil," said Dr. Lewis. Dr. Lewis showed them a giant footprint in a rock. "This was made by a large dinosaur called Iguanodon."  "That's really big," said Scott. He thought about the tracks Taffy made in the mud. "That dinosaur's foot was much bigger than a dog's." Dr. Lewis smiled. Suddenly, Scott looked worried. "Dr. Lewis, are there more bones or any tracks by the new road? Will the dump trucks destroy them?" "No," said Dr. Lewis. "They will wait for us to look for more fossils. Then they will finish the road. We may find the rest of your duckbill. You children can watch. And Scott, you must bring Taffy along. He may be the best dinosaur hunter of all!"
