Pete stared into the pine forests of the Georgia mountains. The land didn't seem as beautiful now as it had earlier. He picked up a stick and poked at the campfire. Pete's father was hurt. He was lying on the ground with his broken leg wrapped in cloth. "Amos, you crazy mule!" Pete yelled at the grazing animal. "If you had not run from that bear, Father wouldn't have fallen off!" There were few towns and no doctors in the Georgia mountains in 1765. Pete and his father had set the broken bone in place, but healing would take a long time.  Pete and his father had been hunting for plants. Pete's father was a botanist, or plant expert. The Cherokee called him "Flower Hunter." Pete wanted to be a flower hunter, too. "Son, I want you to look carefully at every flower," Pete's father had said on an earlier trip. "Some plants don't have flowers!" Pete had answered. "You're right," his father had said. "That fir tree doesn't have flowers. It's a conifer, or cone-bearing plant. It has hard brown cones." Pete stared into the pine forests of the Georgia mountains. The land didn't seem as beautiful now as it had earlier. He picked up a stick and poked at the campfire. Pete's father was hurt. He was lying on the ground with his broken leg wrapped in cloth. "Amos, you crazy mule!" Pete yelled at the grazing animal. "If you had not run from that bear, Father wouldn't have fallen off!" There were few towns and no doctors in the Georgia mountains in 1765. Pete and his father had set the broken bone in place, but healing would take a long time.  Pete and his father had been hunting for plants. Pete's father was a botanist, or plant expert. The Cherokee called him "Flower Hunter." Pete wanted to be a flower hunter, too. "Son, I want you to look carefully at every flower," Pete's father had said on an earlier trip. "Some plants don't have flowers!" Pete had answered. "You're right," his father had said. "That fir tree doesn't have flowers. It's a conifer, or cone-bearing plant. It has hard brown cones." "Like pine cones," said Pete. "Yes. Do you know what these cones have inside them?" asked his father. Pete opened a cone. "Seeds," he said. "Father, do all plants have seeds?" "Most plants do. They are divided into two groups. One is flowering plants. The other is cone-bearing plants. Flowering plants have seeds inside fruits, and cone-bearing plants have seeds in cones." On the last hunting trip, Pete had discovered the two kinds of flowering plants. One kind, monocots, have flowers with groups of three petals. Dicots have flowers with groups of four or five petals. It was fun looking at all those plants. Pete heard his father call. This was no time for gazing into campfires. "Peter! Come here please. I think my leg is infected. I have a bad fever," his father said in a tired voice. "You must help me, son. Some plants can help me get well. Bring me willow bark, boneset, and pine sap for my leg. Club moss, too, if you can. Please hurry!" Pete was afraid. Could he find the right plants? He would have to try. He hurried off into the woods. It was easy to find the willow bark. Willows with long, skinny leaves were growing by the river. Pete liked their sharp smell. He stripped off some bark and put it in his pouch. Finding pine sap was easy, too. Pine trees stood all around him. He saw their prickly cones and smelled their green needles. Pete picked lumps of sap from the bark. Tiny club moss plants grew under the pines. They looked like toy trees. Pete remembered that club moss is a nonseed plant. It has spores instead of seeds. He shook the plants over a small jar. Soon the jar was full of spores. Now Pete started to hunt for the boneset plant. He searched everywhere. He was getting hungry. His feet hurt and scratches covered his arms. Finally, he found a few plants that looked right. But how could he be sure? He thought back to his lessons about plants. Pete's father had told him that a good botanist carefully checks the petals, fruit, leaves, stems, and roots to find each kind of plant. His father always reminded Pete that there was a lot to know about plants. Thinking again of the lessons his father had given him, Pete felt sad. Would his father be all right? Pete knew he must find the right plant. His father's life depended on what he had learned. He examined a plant he thought might be boneset. It had the right kind of small white flowers. The leaves were opposite each other on the stems, too.  Each leaf had a partner right across from it. For one last test, Pete dug up the plant and looked at the root. The root was fat and bumpy, exactly right for boneset. As Pete left the clearing he saw a bush with something white on it. He went closer. The bush had shiny green leaves. Some leaves were turning red. It had large white flowers. Pete had never seen anything so pretty. "Father will like this," he thought. He knew better than to touch a strange plant, but he studied it closely. Then he returned to camp. Pete showed his father the plants he had found. He told him about the strange plant with the white flowers, too. "Yes, these are the right plants, son." His father smiled. "But where did you find that plant with the white flowers?" "I'll show you when you are feeling better," said Pete. "Good," said his father. Pete boiled some water in a cup. He put the willow bark and the boneset in the water to make tea. After letting it sit for a while, Pete's father drank the tea. Pete put the pine sap and club moss spores on his father's leg. Then Pete's father slept for hours. When he awoke, Pete's father felt much better. The willow bark and boneset had made his fever go away. The club moss spores and the pine sap were helping his infected leg heal. "Peter can you help me make a crutch?" asked his father. "Then I want you to take me to see that plant with the white flowers." "It's in this clearing by the river," Pete explained. They hiked to the clearing. Pete's father studied the plant. "You've made an exciting discovery!" he said. "We'll take some cuttings from this plant. And you can name it." "I think we should name it for your friend Ben Franklin. He likes science. He'll like to have a plant named for him." "That's a fine idea," his father added, looking at him proudly. "And Pete, you're going to be a great flower hunter."
