"Well, Chris," Gram said. "Today we can do anything you want." "Can we read the book your great-grandmother wrote?" I asked. "Yes," said Gram. "I'll go and get it." The book was very old. The pages were yellow. The book smelled old. "This is my great-grandma's diary," said Gram. "She was your great-great-great grandma. She wrote about how our family came west when she was a little girl." "Didn't our family always live here?" I asked. "No, Chris. They came to California from New York. In those days there were no cars or planes. There were few trains. People traveled in wagons pulled by horses." "Well, Chris," Gram said. "Today we can do anything you want." "Can we read the book your great-grandmother wrote?" I asked. "Yes," said Gram. "I'll go and get it." The book was very old. The pages were yellow. The book smelled old. "This is my great-grandma's diary," said Gram. "She was your great-great-great grandma. She wrote about how our family came west when she was a little girl." "Didn't our family always live here?" I asked. "No, Chris. They came to California from New York. In those days there were no cars or planes. There were few trains. People traveled in wagons pulled by horses." "That sounds like fun," I said. "It was not fun for my great-grandma. Her family had to cross rivers, plains, mountains, and a desert. The United States is a big country. They went from one side to the other." Gram opened the book to the middle. "This tells what it was like on the plains. I'll read it." May 14, 1860 We are crossing the great plains. Everything is so flat! I can see miles and miles of grassy land. I see mountains but they are still ahead, so far away. I think we'll never reach them. I had to walk beside the wagon all day because the horses were tired. Now I am very tired and my legs hurt. "What is a plain?" I asked Gram. "It is a flat land. It has grass, but few trees," she said. "When great-grandma crossed the plains, few people lived there. Water was hard to find. Today, farmers grow food there."
