Clint took out his special box. He kept his favorite things in that box. There was the arrowhead he found in a field. There was a beautiful golden shell and a key chain from the zoo. But the best thing in Clint's box was the blue ribbon his father had won at the county fair when he was a boy. Clint wished he could win a blue ribbon, just like his dad did. "This summer I'll get the chance," he thought. If Clint could think of a project for his farm club, he just might win. The club gave ribbons for the best projects. Clint needed a good idea. Clint's mother was getting the family garden ready for spring planting. Clint always helped her. He loved to dig in the dirt and plant seeds. The best part was watching the seeds sprout. As Clint worked in the garden, he got a great idea. "Why don't I try to grow something all by myself? I could enter what I grow as my project for the farm club." Clint went to look for his father. He found him working in the barn.  "Dad, can I talk to you for a minute?" Clint asked. "Sure, Clint," said his father. "What can I do for you?" "Well, do your remember that blue ribbon you won at the fair? I really want to win one, too," said Clint. "I was thinking. Maybe I could grow something all by myself to enter at the fair. I wondered what kinds of seeds I could plant," finished Clint. "Go get the seed basket. Take a look at what's in there," said Dad. "Whatever seeds you choose, I'll be glad to help." Clint looked at the seed packets. At the bottom of the basket was a packet marked "Sweet Corn." When Clint saw those words, he could almost taste that wonderful corn. "This is it, Dad! I'm going to grow sweet corn! Blue-ribbon sweet corn." Dad smiled to see Clint so excited. "You'd better read the directions," Dad said. "Growing good corn takes a lot of work." Clint read the directions on the seed packet. 1. Plant sweet corn in early May. 2. Get the ground ready for planting. 3. Plant seeds in a sunny spot. 4. Plant seeds in straight rows. 5. Water seeds once a week if it does not rain. 6. The corn should be fully grown in 85 days. "I think I can do it, Dad," said Clint. "Good," said Dad. "Today is May first, so you'd better start now. You can use the small plot by your mother's garden to plant your crop." That afternoon, Clint planted the corn seeds in four neat rows. Spring turned into summer. The days passed quickly. When it didn't rain, Clint remembered to water his corn. Soon the green shoots were growing tall and straight. Slowly, long leaves grew out of the stalks. By July the plants were as tall as Clint. One day Dad and Clint stood out by the corn plants. "It's time to watch for tassels on your corn plants," said Dad. "What are tassels, Dad?" Clint asked. "Tassels are flowers," Dad answered. "They grow on top of the corn stalk. Tassels make a yellow dust called pollen. Your corn plants need pollen to grow ears of corn. The wind helps corn pollen fall over the plant." Clint looked at his corn plants. "How does pollen help the plants?" "Strings of corn silk hang out of each corn husk. These strings catch the pollen," said Dad. "They take it into the cob, where the kernels will grow. There is one string of corn silk for each kernel. When the pollen reaches the cob, the kernels begin to grow." Every day Clint checked his plants for tassels. He wondered if the wind would blow enough pollen onto the corn silk. One afternoon Clint found his dad in the fields. "Dad," he said, "I'm worried that not enough pollen will fall on the corn silk." "Well," said Dad, "sometimes the wind doesn't blow enough pollen onto the silk. Then, the farmer has to help. You want your corn to be especially good. Maybe you should think up a way to sprinkle the pollen onto the silk yourself." Clint thought and thought. Finally, he looked at some of his parents' farming magazines. An hour later, Clint ran to his corn plants. He had found a way to spread the pollen. First, he put a brown paper bag over a tassel. Next, he held the bag shut at the bottom. Carefully, he bent the tassel so that the pollen would not spill out of the bag. Then he shook the plant. The pollen fell off the tassel and into the bag. Finally, Clint took the bag off the tassel and sprinkled the pollen on the corn silk of each ear. Soon the silk and husks of each plant were covered with pollen. It was long, hard work, but Clint was happy. He had solved a problem, just like a real farmer. Over the next few weeks, the corn grew quickly. Clint worked in his rows every day. Finally, he marked off the last of the 85 days. That morning he picked three ears of corn. "These ears are the best," he said. "I'll enter them in the fair." When the fair was over, Clint came home and took out his special box. He smiled as he laid a new blue ribbon next to his father's. Now there were two blue ribbons in the family.
Lois and Sam were reporters for The Kids' Science Newsletter. They studied their new assignment. "It's a tough one, Sam," said Lois. "We have to write an article about sight." "Eyesight?" Sam asked. "One of our senses? That shouldn't be too hard." "That's not the problem," Lois replied. "The problem is, when are we going to have time to do it? It's due on Monday. Today is Friday." "Right, and tomorrow is our field trip to the zoo with Ms. Gordon," added Sam. "Maybe we won't be able to go to the zoo tomorrow," Lois said sadly. On their way out of school, Lois and Sam met Ms. Gordon. "Why do you have such gloomy faces?" she asked. "Aren't you excited about our field trip tomorrow?" Lois and Sam were reporters for The Kids' Science Newsletter. They studied their new assignment. "It's a tough one, Sam," said Lois. "We have to write an article about sight." "Eyesight?" Sam asked. "One of our senses? That shouldn't be too hard." "That's not the problem," Lois replied. "The problem is, when are we going to have time to do it? It's due on Monday. Today is Friday." "Right, and tomorrow is our field trip to the zoo with Ms. Gordon," added Sam. "Maybe we won't be able to go to the zoo tomorrow," Lois said sadly. On their way out of school, Lois and Sam met Ms. Gordon. "Why do you have such gloomy faces?" she asked. "Aren't you excited about our field trip tomorrow?" Lois and Sam were reporters for The Kids' Science Newsletter. They studied their new assignment. "It's a tough one, Sam," said Lois. "We have to write an article about sight." "Eyesight?" Sam asked. "One of our senses? That shouldn't be too hard." "That's not the problem," Lois replied. "The problem is, when are we going to have time to do it? It's due on Monday. Today is Friday." "Right, and tomorrow is our field trip to the zoo with Ms. Gordon," added Sam. "Maybe we won't be able to go to the zoo tomorrow," Lois said sadly. On their way out of school, Lois and Sam met Ms. Gordon. "Why do you have such gloomy faces?" she asked. "Aren't you excited about our field trip tomorrow?" "That's the problem," Sam told her. "We really want to go, but we have work to do. We have to write an article about eyesight." "So we won't have time to go to the zoo," added Lois. Ms. Gordon smiled. "Oh, that's no problem! You can visit the zoo and learn about eyesight too," she said. "We'll meet at the zoo at ten o'clock. Don't be late!" Sam and Lois looked puzzled. How could they do research about eyesight at the zoo? But they both agreed it was worth a try. On Saturday morning, Lois, Sam, and ten other students met Ms. Gordon at the zoo gates. "Hi!" Ms. Gordon called. "Everyone is here, so let's go!" "But Ms. Gordon," Lois said, "We're still not sure how we can find facts about eyesight here." "I'm sure you two will think of something," Ms. Gordon smiled. "Here's the snake house." Sam and Lois followed the group into the snake house. They stopped in front of three windows. Lois looked through the windows. "What snakes do you see?" she asked. "I don't see much," answered Sam. They were turning away when Lois said, "Wait! I saw something moving out of the corner of my eye! Right there, near that big rock. A long, black snake." "It's a black mamba," Sam said, reading the sign below the window. He looked at Lois. She seemed to be thinking. "I saw that snake out of the corner of my eye," she said slowly. "That's called-" "Peripheral vision!" finished Sam. "Being able to see things at our sides." "Right," continued Lois. "Peripheral vision is a fact we can put in our article." "Yes," said Sam. "And, we can see things that move. That's a second fact we can put in our article. This article won't be so hard to write." Lois was about to agree, but instead she pointed into another cage. "Look Sam! It's a big, fat snake." "Where?" Sam asked. "I don't see it." "Right there," she said, "lying in the grass. It's hard to see because it's green, like the grass. But the snake is dark, and the grass is light green." "Oh, I see it now. Hey, those are two more facts about eyesight. We can see things that are dark and light, and we can see color," said Sam. Lois pointed to another cage. "I recognize this snake," she said. "It's a king cobra." "And look," said Sam, "way down at the other end of the snake house. It's a giant boa constrictor. I really want to get a close look at that snake." "Wait," said Lois. "That's another eyesight fact. We can see things that are near and far. Now we have lots of facts about eyesight. Let's go see the boa constrictor. It's my favorite snake." At the end of the day, Lois and Sam thanked Ms. Gordon. "You were right, Ms. Gordon," said Sam. "We did our work, and we had fun at the zoo." "And you learned a lot about one of your senses," Ms. Gordon replied. "Your eyes are very important. They take in light and send messages about the light to your brain." "Messages about color, movement, and distance?" Lois asked. "Yes," said Ms. Gordon. "And whether something is beside us. That's when we use peripheral vision," added Sam. "Yes, that too," smiled Ms. Gordon. "Can you name the other four senses?" "Hearing, tasting," Lois began. "Smelling and feeling," finished Sam. As they walked away from the zoo gates, Lois said, "I had fun. Did you, Sam?" "You bet," Sam answered. "I can't wait until our next assignment."
I went walking. What did you see? I saw a black cat looking at me. I went walking. What did you see? I saw a brown horse looking at me. I went walking. What did you see? I saw a red cow looking at me. I went walking. What did you see? I saw a green duck looking at me. I went walking. What did you see? I saw a pink pig looking at me. I went walking. What did you see? I saw a yellow dog looking at me. I went walking. What did you see? I saw a lot of animals following me!
The brother. The sister. The mother. The father. The dog. The cat. The family!
The Clever Crow Illustrated by Kim Kelly It had not rained in many weeks. All the streams and all the ponds were dried up. The Clever Crow Illustrated by Kim Kelly It had not rained in many weeks. All the streams and all the ponds were dried up. An old crow had been looking for water all morning. At last he found some in a pitcher in a garden. He flew down to it and stuck in his bill, but he could not reach the water.  He walked over to the other side and tried again. He still could not reach. He looked at the cool water. Oh, how thirsty he was! He felt faint.  "I must have that water! I'm going to get it," he said. He stretched his neck into the pitcher until it was sore, but could not reach the water. He stopped for a second and thought. Then he said, "My beak is strong and hard. I'll break the pitcher." So he gave the pitcher a hard thump. It did not break. He pecked at it, first here and then there. It did not even crack. What a strong pitcher it was! "This simply won't do," he said. "I have to try some other plan. I am big and strong. I will tip the pitcher over." He pushed against the pitcher with his chest. It did not move. Nearby in the garden lay some pebbles. The crow picked one up and let it fall into the pitcher.  He dropped in another, then another. He could see the water rise a little. Now he worked harder than ever. Soon the water was high enough that he could reach it. How wonderful it tasted! He drank as much as he wanted and flew away. Because he used his head, and did not give up, he won!
"Well, Chris," Gram said. "Today we can do anything you want." "Can we read the book your great-grandmother wrote?" I asked. "Yes," said Gram. "I'll go and get it." The book was very old. The pages were yellow. The book smelled old. "This is my great-grandma's diary," said Gram. "She was your great-great-great grandma. She wrote about how our family came west when she was a little girl." "Didn't our family always live here?" I asked. "No, Chris. They came to California from New York. In those days there were no cars or planes. There were few trains. People traveled in wagons pulled by horses." "Well, Chris," Gram said. "Today we can do anything you want." "Can we read the book your great-grandmother wrote?" I asked. "Yes," said Gram. "I'll go and get it." The book was very old. The pages were yellow. The book smelled old. "This is my great-grandma's diary," said Gram. "She was your great-great-great grandma. She wrote about how our family came west when she was a little girl." "Didn't our family always live here?" I asked. "No, Chris. They came to California from New York. In those days there were no cars or planes. There were few trains. People traveled in wagons pulled by horses." "That sounds like fun," I said. "It was not fun for my great-grandma. Her family had to cross rivers, plains, mountains, and a desert. The United States is a big country. They went from one side to the other." Gram opened the book to the middle. "This tells what it was like on the plains. I'll read it." May 14, 1860 We are crossing the great plains. Everything is so flat! I can see miles and miles of grassy land. I see mountains but they are still ahead, so far away. I think we'll never reach them. I had to walk beside the wagon all day because the horses were tired. Now I am very tired and my legs hurt. "What is a plain?" I asked Gram. "It is a flat land. It has grass, but few trees," she said. "When great-grandma crossed the plains, few people lived there. Water was hard to find. Today, farmers grow food there."
The Leaves and The Roots modified by Taylor Struemph "We make cool shade on the green grass," said the flapping leaves. "We dress the tree in fresh and quiet green. It is bare and brown without us.  Tired people and hot animals are happy for our shade. Children love to play under us.  At night the song birds of the woods fly to us for our safety. We hide the nests of mother birds.  The light winds stay with us and play with us." And the leaves felt very proud and important. "What you say is all very true, but you should not forget us," said a voice from the earth. "We are surely worth something." "And who are you? Where do you grow?" asked the leaves. We are deep in the ground, far below you, but we feed the stems and make you grow. We are the roots. You owe your beauty to us. We are not pretty like you are, but we do not die.  Winter does not change us. But when it comes you fall. The tree stands firm. We hold it in place. If we died, the tree would die and you would die with it."
The Greedy Dog illustrated by Kim Kelley "What a great time I'll have eating this meat when I get home!" said Bill the dog. He began to cross a stream of water. He stopped suddenly and looked down into the water. There was another dog looking back at him from inside the stream! "Hey! He has a bigger piece of meat than I do!" he said. "I want that piece, and I'm going to get it!" Bill growled, but the dog in the water did not move. He didn't drop his meat either. Bill stared very hard at the dog in the water. Bill thought that if he could scare him, the other dog would drop his meat.  Bill barked at the dog in the water. He was soon sorry for that, because the meat slipped from his mouth and sank to the bottom of the stream. The dog in the water lost his meat at the same time, and poor Bill went home hungry.
This is Sam. Sam is a kid. Sam is a big kid with a cat. Biff is a cat. Biff is tan. Biff is a cat, and his pal is Sam. Sam has a hat. The hat is tan. Sam's tan hat is on the mat.  Biff sees the hat- He ran to the mat. Biff can fit in the hat on the mat.  Silly old cat!
The Sun and The Wind modified by Taylor Struemph illustrated by Nigel Sussman This is the Sun. This is the Wind. One day, the Sun said to the Wind "I am better than you." "You are not so strong," said the wind. "I am better!" A man in a coat walked by. "We will see who is better now," said the Wind. "The one who can make him take off his coat is stronger." "Okay", said the Sun. The wind blew at the man. He blew hard. He made it rainy and cold. But the man pulled his coat close. The Wind could not get it off. The wind blew at the man. He blew hard. He made it rainy and cold. But the man pulled his coat close. The Wind could not get it off. The Sun tried. He shone on the man. It got warmer and warmer. The man took his coat off. The Sun won!
"Oops!" cried Jack. "I spilled my tacks." "What a mess!" said Donna. "Take this bar. It will help you." Jack took the bar. Jack looked at the bar. Then he moved it near the tacks. Tacks stuck to the bar. "It's magic!" Jack said "It is not magic," Donna said. "That bar is a magnet. It pulls the tacks." "It will pull anything!" shouted Jack. "Watch this!" Jack pulled the tacks from the bar. He put them in the box. He put the box on the ladder. Donna shook her head. Jack pointed the magnet at a red apple. Jack wiggled the magnet. The apple did not move. "Watch me pick up that penny!" Jack said. "I will use my magic bar." Jack moved the magnet near a penny. "Move!" Jack shouted. The penny did not move. Donna smiled. She got her paper clips.  Donna loved paper clips.  "Let's try these," she said. "Watch," said Donna. She took the bar.  She moved the bar near a shiny paper clip. The paper clip jumped onto the magnet. Donna moved a new paper clip near the first clip. The new clip jumped onto the first clip.  "A chain!" Jack shouted. "Make a chain of paper clips!" Donna made a big chain. She smiled at Jack. "It is magic," Jack said. "No. Magnets only pull some things," said Donna. "Magnets pull paper clips and tacks." "But not apples and pennies," said Jack. "Can magnets pull other magnets?" asked Jack. "I have two magnets. Let's try them," Donna said. Donna took the magnets.  Jack looked at them.  Each magnet was red and black. Donna put the red end of one magnet next to the black end of the other magnet. "Woo!" cried Jack. "Magnets pull other magnets!" "Try to put the two black ends together," said Donna. "Oh no," said Jack. "The magnets will not go together. The magnets are pushing apart." "I broke them," Jack cried. "No, you did not break them," Donna laughed. "That's how magnets work," said Donna.  "The ends that are the same color push apart." "And ends with different colors pull together!" Jack said. Jack held the magnets over his head. He started to jump. Jack jumped up and down. Jack bumped into the ladder. The box of tacks fell. Tacks spilled all over the floor. "Oops," Jack said. "What a mess!" Donna said. Jack knew what to do. He used the magnets to pick up all the tacks. "It's not magic," Jack said. "It's magnets."
I asked Mom and Dad for a brother or sister. "I want someone to play with," I told them. They brought Luis home from the hospital. He was just a baby! He couldn't do anything! "Can we trade him in?" I asked. "Of course we can't trade him in. He is your brother!" they said. Now Luis is six months old. He can't do much. He's not much fun. My cat had kittens. The kittens can run, jump, and climb. They are lots of fun. They are only three months old. They are younger than Luis. I asked Mom and Dad for a brother or sister. "I want someone to play with," I told them. They brought Luis home from the hospital. He was just a baby! He couldn't do anything! "Can we trade him in?" I asked. "Of course we can't trade him in. He is your brother!" they said. Now Luis is six months old. He can't do much. He's not much fun. My cat had kittens. The kittens can run, jump, and climb. They are lots of fun. They are only three months old. They are younger than Luis. All Luis does is sleep. Well, sometimes he cries. He eats a lot, too. "How long does it take a baby to grow?" I asked. "The kittens are younger than Luis. They can do many things. Luis has a problem. He can't do anything!" "Look at your kittens," Mom said. "They are almost as big as their mother. But people take longer to grow than kittens do. Soon Luis will be able to do things. Soon he will be more fun." Mom took some pictures from a box. They were baby pictures. My baby pictures. Mom said, "Once you were as small as Luis. See how much you have grown in six years." Then Luis started to cry. "Lunch time," said Mom. "You and Luis need lots of good food to do all that growing." That gave me an idea. Maybe Luis wasn't growing fast because he didn't eat the right food. Kittens eat kitten food. They grow very fast. Maybe if Mom fed Luis kitten food, he'd grow fast, too. Mom didn't like that idea. "Kitten food is for kittens," she told me. "You and Luis need people food to grow. You need food from each of the four food groups." "What are the four food groups, Mom?" I asked. "One group is dairy foods, like milk and cheese. A second group is meats, like chicken and fish. Eggs and nuts are in the meat group, too. A third group is breads and cereals. And the fourth group is fruits and vegetables." I thought about the problem with Luis. Maybe he did not eat enough. He could never grow just eating baby food.  "Luis should eat the same foods that I eat. Maybe he would grow faster," I said. "He can't eat the food that you eat," Mom said. "He only has two teeth. He can't chew well" I didn't think of that. Luis only had two teeth! It can't be fun being a baby, even for Luis. I eat all the things that make me grow. I like the foods I eat. Maybe the problem with Luis is that he's a baby. He can't do anything about it. Soon he'll grow. Then he'll be a real kid, just like me.  Until then, I'll play with the kittens.
One day, a frog was out walking. He saw a mouse. "There is a silly mouse," he said. "I will play a joke on him. It will be fun!" "Good morning little mouse. How are you today?" said the frog. "I am fine," said the mouse. "How are you?" "I don't feel good today, so I am out walking. Will you walk with me?" said the frog. "Okay!" said the mouse. "I am not busy. It will be fun!" They walked together for a while. The frog said, "Let me tie your foot to by back leg. That way, I won't lose you." "Okay," said the mouse. "That will make us close friends." The frog took some string and tied the mouse to his leg. When the frog hopped, the mouse hopped too. It was funny. They laughed.  They went to a field. The frog ate bugs, and the mouse ate grass. After the field, they went to a lake. The mouse cried when he saw the water. "I do not like the water, frog. I want to go to the barn." The mean frog said, "I think you need a bath, mouse. You have never had one, and it is hot. Come on! It will feel good." The frog jumped into the water. The mouse tried to get away, but could not. The frog laughed.  Then a hawk flew by and saw the mouse. Hawks eat mice. The hawk flew down and took the mouse. The frog was tied to the mouse, so he went too. The hawk ate the mouse and the frog. The other frogs found out about their friend. They said "Served him right!" and no frogs ever played a mean joke again. 
"Oh yes, do," said Dickory. "Well," said Hickory, "I'd like to take a little stroll myself. But you must promise to be very careful, and not get into any trouble. I'll take you through the hole that I found." So the three little mice started off, with Hickory showing the way. Soon they came to a crack in the wall. Hickory stuck his head through. He saw that all was quiet- the family of people that lived in the house was fast asleep. So he went through the crack, and his two brothers came after. Their little hearts beat very fast, because they knew if they were found they would have to run for their lives. They crept over the thick carpet until they came to some stairs. "What shall we do now?" Hickory asked his brothers. "Let's go down," said Dock. So they went down the stairs to the hall of the house very carefully. They were surprised by what they saw. There was a big wall for hats and coats, a bucket for umbrellas, two very pretty chairs, and, best of all, a tall clock that stood on the floor and ticked out the minutes in a loud and strong voice. When the little mice first heard the ticking of the clock they were scared. They stayed close together on the bottom stair. "What is it?" asked Dickory quietly.  "I don't know," said Hickory. He was afraid too. "Is it alive?" asked Dock. "I don't know," said Hickory again. Then they saw that the clock didn't notice them, but kept ticking away. So they got their courage up and ran about.  Suddenly, Dickory gave a yell that made his brothers come running. There in a corner lay almost half of a muffin. The little girl of the family had dropped it when being carried upstairs to bed. It was a great find for the three mice. They ate until the last crumb was gone and they were fat and happy. "This is better than the kitchen," said Dock. They had finished their supper, "and I bet there are plenty more good things around if we only look for them." But they couldn't find more. All the doors in the hall were closed. Dock went to the clock. "It doesn't seem to be alive," he said, "but it does make a lot of noise. I'm going to go behind it to see what I can find." He found nothing except a hole to inside of the clock and he stuck his head in. Dock could hear the ticking louder than ever now. He looked way up to the top of the clock and saw something bright. He thought it must be good to eat if he could only get to it. Without saying anything to his brothers, Dock ran up the sides of the clock until he came to the gears. He was just about to bite at a shiny wheel to see what it tasted like. Suddenly the clock went "Bang!" It was one o'clock. The clock was just telling the time. But the big bell was just beside Dock's ear and the noise hurt the poor little mouse. He screamed with fear and ran down the clock as fast as he could go. When he got to the hall he heard his brothers running up the stairs. He ran after them as fast as he could. Only when they were safe in their nest again did they stop to breathe. They were so scared that their little hearts beat fast for an hour. Mamma Mouse came back in the morning. She brought some nice flour with her for breakfast. They told her about their adventure. She thought they had been punished enough already for not listening to her, so she did not scold them. She only said, "You see, my dears? Your mother knew best when she told you not leave the nest. Children sometimes think they know more than their parents. This adventure should teach you always to listen to your mother. The next time you run away it may end worse than last night. After all, remember what happened to your poor father."  But Hickory and Dickory and Dock did not run away again.
The Boy and The Nuts modified by Taylor Struemph Illustrated By Kim Kelley A glass jar half full of nuts was on a table. Albert, who loved nuts, saw it. He climbed up on the table and put his hand into the jar. He grabbed a whole handful. Then, he tried to pull his hand out. The mouth of the jar was too small for his fist. He pulled and pulled and became very angry at the jar, but it was no use. His hand was stuck! At last he began to scream and cry. His mother ran to the room to see what was wrong with him. "What's the matter, Albert?" she asked. "This mean old jar will not let me have this handful of nuts!" cried Albert. His mother laughed when she saw the cause of all his trouble. "You greedy boy! You don't need a whole handful at once," she said. "Try taking out a few at a time." Albert let go of the nuts and took only two. His hand came out easily. "When you get into trouble again, stop and think of a way to fix it instead of screaming," said his mother. "And next time, don't be so greedy." 
The Gold In The Orchard adapted from the Italian Folk tale illustrated by Nigel Sussman A farmer who had worked hard all his life was sick. He knew that he would die soon. He called his three sons to his bed to give them some advice. They were good sons, but did not like farm work. They wanted to make money fast. "My sons," he said, "Take good care of the orchard. Do not sell it. There is a pot of gold under the dirt. Dig for it if you want. Turn over every foot of earth, then turn it again and again. The treasure is there." The Gold In The Orchard adapted from the Italian Folk tale illustrated by Nigel Sussman A farmer who had worked hard all his life was sick. He knew that he would die soon. He called his three sons to his bed to give them some advice. They were good sons, but did not like farm work. They wanted to make money fast. "My sons," he said, "Take good care of the orchard. Do not sell it. There is a pot of gold under the dirt. Dig for it if you want. Turn over every foot of earth, then turn it again and again. The treasure is there." The sons tried to get him to tell them where the gold was hidden. He would not tell them. After the farmer was gone, the sons went to work to find the pot of gold. They did not know where the hiding place was. They decided to begin in a line at one end of the orchard, and to dig until one of them found the money. The sons tried to get him to tell them where the gold was hidden. He would not tell them. After the farmer was gone, the sons went to work to find the pot of gold. They did not know where the hiding place was. They decided to begin in a line at one end of the orchard, and to dig until one of them found the money. They dug until they had turned up the soil from one end of the orchard to the other. They dug around the tree roots and between them. But they found no pot of gold. They thought maybe someone had stolen it. They thought maybe their father had gone crazy. The three sons were upset to have worked for nothing. The next olive season, the olive trees in the orchard grew more fruit than ever. The good work they had done digging brought the fruit. It was so good that when it was sold, they got a whole pot of gold! The sons saw how much money had come from the orchard. Then they knew what the wise father had meant when he said, "There is gold hidden in the orchard; dig for it."
Jeff gripped the chain. With one quick push of the pedal the chain wrapped around the gear. "There," he said to his friend Mike. "Now try it." Mike rode the bicycle down the driveway and circled back toward Jeff. "Gee, thanks," he said. "It's like a brand new bike." Jeff grinned. He liked fixing things. Then he looked up just in time to see his new puppy running up the hill. "Mom," he cried. "There goes Puddles. Can we go after him on our bikes?" Jeff's mom looked out the window. "Yes. But come home in time to do your homework. Remember, you must turn in your ideas for your science fair project tomorrow." The boys jumped on their bikes and headed up the hill. They saw Puddles up ahead. His golden ears flopped up and down as he ran over the hilltop. The boys pushed harder on the pedals as they climbed the steep hill. "Change your gears, Mike," yelled Jeff. Jeff watched as Mike's chain slipped over a larger gear. "Thanks, Jeff. That makes pedaling much easier." At the top of the hill the boys stopped to catch their breath. Mike was puzzled. "Jeff, why did shifting make it easier to pedal?" "I don't know. It's got something to do with the gears," answered Jeff. "I'm just glad that we won't need to pedal so hard going down the hill." The boys looked down the hill. Below they could see the roller coaster in the new amusement park. The park was called Fun Station. "Look at those hills, Mike. I'll bet we would need some big gears to climb them!" "And strong legs, too!" added Mike. Jeff looked down at the Fun Station fence. There was Puddles digging under the gate. "Oh, no," he groaned. "Mom said that Fun Station was off limits until it opens next summer." The boys coasted down the hill. All their uphill pedaling paid off. Jeff wondered how fast they were going, and he imagined how fast they could go on the roller coaster. Jeff and Mike squeezed their hand brakes to slow down.  When they reached the fence, Jeff dropped to his knees. He peered through the hole.  Puddles was nowhere in sight. "Puddles! Puddles!" Mike and Jeff shouted, but Puddles did not return. Then, over the sounds of the workers, they heard a familiar bark. From the other side of the fence a woman spoke. "Have you lost your dog?" "Yes," cried Jeff. "Do you have Puddles?" "Well," said the woman. "I don't know if it's Puddles, but I have a friendly little cocker spaniel here." "That's Puddles," cried Jeff. "Can you make him come back through this hole?" The woman laughed. "Here, it will be easier for Puddles if I open the gate." In a few minutes, Puddles was in Jeff's arms. Jeff hugged him hard.  Puddles wiggled to get free, but Jeff wasn't about to let him escape again. Jeff looked up at the woman. "Thank you for bringing Puddles out." "No problem," said the young woman. "My name's Lisa. I'm one of the engineers building the Great Gravity Machine. I was playing & with Puddles when I heard you call." "What's the Great Gravity Machine?" asked Jeff. "That's the name of the roller coaster." Lisa pointed toward the big steel hills. "Wow! It's huge!" said Mike. "I can see why they call it Great. But what about 'Gravity'?" "Well, gravity is a force. A force pushes or pulls things," explained Lisa. "On a roller coaster, the cars are attached to a chain that wraps around gears. When an engine turns the gears, the chain pulls the cars up the first hill. The first hill is always the highest one.  When the cars reach the top, the force of gravity pulls them down the hill. When they reach the bottom, the cars are going fast enough to get up the next hill by themselves." "Yeah," Jeff nodded. "Gravity is why we coasted so fast down the hill on our bikes." "That's right," Lisa replied. "Your bicycle and the roller coaster both use gravity. But there is one big difference. Your bike has pedals. The coaster cars have no pedals and no engine. The roller coaster is made of several simple machines. Simple machines have only one or two parts. One simple machine is an inclined plane. That's just another name for a ramp." "Is a ramp a machine?" asked Mike. "Sure," said Lisa. "A machine is anything that helps you do things more easily. Suppose that you had to climb straight up from the ground to the top of that roller coaster hill." "That would be tough," said Jeff. "It's much easier for a roller coaster to climb a ramp than to go straight up," explained Lisa. Then Mike had an idea. "Our bikes go up hill. Are they machines?" Lisa nodded. "Your bike is made of several simple machines. The pedals help you turn the wheels. The pedals are part of a simple machine called the wheel and axle. The hand brakes are simple machines called levers." "How about the gears?" asked Mike. "You're right. Gears are also simple machines," answered Lisa. Just then Puddles jumped from Jeff's arms. Jeff caught the puppy and clipped on his leash. "I guess Puddles thinks it's time to go home," laughed Jeff. Puddles pulled at his leash while the boys thanked Lisa. "You're very welcome," she said. "Come back this summer and let me know how you like the roller coaster ride." As the boys turned toward home, Mike thought about his homework. "I know what I'm going to do for the science fair," he announced. "I'm going to figure out how the gears work on my bike." Jeff smiled. He planned to build a roller coaster for his car collection. He'd call it "The Little Gravity Machine."
Pink Roses Illustrated By Kim Kelley Once, a long time ago, there were no pink roses. All the roses in the world were white. There weren't any red ones, any yellow ones, or any pink ones. There were only white roses. Very early one morning, a little white rosebud woke up. She saw the sun looking at her. He stared so hard that the little white rosebud didn't know what to do. So she looked up at him and said, "Why are you looking at me so hard?" "Because you are so pretty!" said the big round sun. And the little white rosebud blushed! She turned pink. After that, all her children were little pink roses.
Why The Evergreen Trees Keep Their Leaves modified by Taylor Struemph from Florence Holbrook's "A Book of Nature" illustrated by Kim Kelly One day, a long, long time ago, it was very cold. Winter was coming, and all the birds flew away to the warm south. There they would wait for the spring.  But one little bird had a broken wing and could not fly. He did not know what to do. He looked all round, to see if there was any place where he could keep warm. He saw the trees of the big forest. "Maybe the trees will keep me warm through the winter," he said. So he went to the forest, hopping and fluttering with his broken wing. The first tree he came to was a silver birch. "Beautiful birch tree," he said, "will you let me live in your warm branches until the springtime comes?" "Oh My!" said the birch, "what a thing to ask! I have to take care of my own leaves through the winter. Go away." The little bird hopped and fluttered with his broken wing until he came to the next tree. It was a great, big oak tree. "O big oak-tree," said the little bird, "will you let me live in your warm branches until the springtime comes?" "What a thing to ask!" said the oak tree. "If you stay in my branches all winter you will be eating my acorns. Go away." So the little bird hopped and fluttered with his broken wing till he came to the willow tree by the edge of the brook. "O willow tree," said the little bird, "will you let me live in your warm branches until the springtime comes?" "No!" said the willow-tree. "I never talk to strangers. Go away." The poor little bird did not know where to go; but he hopped and fluttered along with his broken wing. The spruce-tree saw him, and said, "Where are you going, little bird?" "I do not know," said the bird. "The trees will not let me live with them, and my wing is broken and I cannot fly." "You may live on one of my branches," said the spruce. "Here is the warmest one of all." "But may I stay all winter?" "Yes," said the spruce. "I will like to have you." The pine tree stood beside the spruce. When he saw the little bird hopping and fluttering with his broken wing, he said, "My branches are not very warm, but I can keep the wind off because I am big and strong." So the little bird fluttered up into the warm branch of the spruce. The pine tree kept the wind off his house. Then the juniper tree saw what the pine and spruce were doing. She said that she would give the little bird his dinner for the winter from her branches. Juniper berries are very good for little birds. The little bird was very happy in his warm nest away from the wind, with juniper berries to eat. The trees at the edge of the forest talked to each other. "I wouldn't take care of a strange bird," said the birch. "I wouldn't risk my acorns," said the oak.  "I would not talk to strangers," said the willow. And the three trees stood up very tall and proud. That night the North Wind came to the woods to play. He blew at the leaves with his icy breath, and every leaf he touched fell to the ground. He wanted to touch every leaf in the forest, he loved to see the trees bare. "May I touch every leaf?" he said to his father, the Frost King. "No," said the Frost King, "the trees which were kind to the bird with the broken wing may keep their leaves." So North Wind had to leave them alone. The spruce, the pine, and the juniper-tree kept their leaves through all the winter. And they have done so ever since.
DEAR MOM AND DAD PARENTS SINCE YOU HAVE GROUNDED ME AND TOLD TOLD ME TO WRITE DOWN WHY I AM SORRY BEFORE I WAS ALLOWED OUT OF MY ROOM I AM MAD AT YOU I WOULD LIKE TO START BY SAYING THAT I THINK YOU ARE VERY MEAN TO MAKING ME DO THIS BECAUSE IT WASN'T MY FAULT I COULDN'T HELP IT ANYWAY IT WAS AN A- ACCIDENT AND I DIDN'T EVEN DO IT ON PURPOSE I REALLY DIDN'T MEAN TO S- SHAVE THE CAT REALLY I SWEAR OK HERE IS WHAT HAPPENED AS I REMEMBER IT I SAW THE CAT WAS TRYING TO GET THE GERBILS BILS- AND YOU TOLD US WE COULDN'T HIT THE ANIMALS SO WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT ELSE TO DO SO I GRABBED DAD'S NOISE HAIR CLIPPERS AND SHAVED IT YOU COULD YOU SHOULD BE PROUD FOR THINKING SO FAST ON MY TOES OH SURE THINKING OH SURE IT'S EASY TO SAY THAT I SHOULDN'T HAVE JUST PICKED THE CAT UP BUT SOMETIMES WE DON'T ALWAYS THINK ALL THAT GREAT UNDER PRESSURE AND AND YOU KNOW WHAT THOSE STUPID GERBILS DIDN'T EVEN THANK ME THEY JUST RAN ON THAT STUPID WHEEL AND DID STUPID THINGS THAT'S WHY THE LAST TIME I SHAVE THE CAT TO PROTECT ANY STUPID GERBILS BESIDES THE REAL REASON I SHAVED THE CAT WAS TO KEEP IT NICE AND COOL I JUST WANTED TO SEE THE CAT GETTING ALL HOT AND UNCOMFORTABLE AND STUFF PLUS I FORGOT TO TELL YOU SHOULD BE BLAME THAT YOU SHOULD BE BLAMING MRS CASPER MY SCIENCE TEACHER SHE MADE US SAVE SHAVE SOMETHING FOR SCIENCE ASK HER SHE SAID THAT WE WHEN WE SHAVE IT HAIR IT GROWS BACK HARDER AND SOMETIMES EVEN DARKER SO I THOUGHT IF WE COULD SHAVE A CAT A BUNCH OF TIMES HAIR WOULD GROW BACK HARDER EACH TIME AND SOON HAVE AN INCREDIBLE COAT OF CAT FUR ARMOR THEN SHE WOULD BE SUPER CAT AND YOU COULD TAKE HER ON T V SHOWS AND GET LOTS OF MONEY SO THAT YOU CAN SEND JENNY TO COLLEGE EVEN IF SH- SHE HAS IS A DUMB LITTLE TATTLE TALE SHE'S GOOD AT SCHOOL AND YOU BOUGHT HER A CAT CAUSE SHE'S RESPONSIBLE AND STUFF JUST CAUSE SHE'S A GOOD STUDENT DIDN'T MEAN SHE'S REALLY RESPONSIBLE LAST NIGHT I SAW THAT SHE DIDN'T BRUSH HER TEETH OH YEAH I FORGOT TO TELL YOU THAT DEAR MOM AND DAD JENNY DIDN'T BRUSH HER TEETH LAST NIGHT I THINK THAT SHOULD BE BRUSH HER TEETH TWICE TONIGHT THAT'S JUST MY OPINION THOUGH I'LL OPINION THOUGH I'LL LET I'LL BET YOU DIDN'T KNOW SOMETHING ELSE DID YOU KNOW THAT I WANTED TO BE A BARBER I WAS AFRAID TO TELL YOU A- A REASON I SHAVED THE CAT WAS I WANTED TO BE A BARBER AND I NEEDED TO PRACTICE I WAS AFRAID IF YOU WOULDN'T PRACTICE ON M- MY OWN HEAD I CAN PRACTICE BY SHAVING JENNY'S HEAD PROMISE THAT I'LL DO A BETTER JOB THEN I DID THE CAT CAUSE I KNOW CAUSE KNOW I HAVE WHAT DAD CALLS LIFE EXPERIENCE NOT WHAT THAT I SHAVED THE CAT THOUGH
"Taffy, Taffy, where are you?" cried Scott. Scott knew that Taffy liked to dig in the dirt. "I know where Taffy is," he thought. "He is digging where they are building the new road." Scott raced past the dump trucks. He saw Taffy chasing a mole.  The mole ducked into a hole. Taffy barked and began to dig. Dirt flew everywhere. Taffy and Scott were lost in a cloud of dust. When the dust settled, the mole was gone. Then Scott saw the bone. "Look, Taffy. You found a bone," Scott cried. But Taffy didn't care. He didn't even mind when Scott took the bone. Scott had a feeling that there was something special about this bone. "Taffy, Taffy, where are you?" cried Scott. Scott knew that Taffy liked to dig in the dirt. "I know where Taffy is," he thought. "He is digging where they are building the new road." Scott raced past the dump trucks. He saw Taffy chasing a mole.  The mole ducked into a hole. Taffy barked and began to dig. Dirt flew everywhere. Taffy and Scott were lost in a cloud of dust. When the dust settled, the mole was gone. Then Scott saw the bone. "Look, Taffy. You found a bone," Scott cried. But Taffy didn't care. He didn't even mind when Scott took the bone. Scott had a feeling that there was something special about this bone. "Taffy, Taffy, where are you?" cried Scott. Scott knew that Taffy liked to dig in the dirt. "I know where Taffy is," he thought. "He is digging where they are building the new road." Scott raced past the dump trucks. He saw Taffy chasing a mole.  The mole ducked into a hole. Taffy barked and began to dig. Dirt flew everywhere. Taffy and Scott were lost in a cloud of dust. When the dust settled, the mole was gone. Then Scott saw the bone. "Look, Taffy. You found a bone," Scott cried. But Taffy didn't care. He didn't even mind when Scott took the bone. Scott had a feeling that there was something special about this bone. Scott went home. He washed the bone and showed it to his parents. They were surprised. "This is a special bone! It is very heavy," said his father. "I think it is a fossil. It is a bone that has been under ground for millions of years and has turned into rock." "Wow! A fossil- a real fossil!" Scott was excited. His mother said, "Why don't you take the fossil on your trip to the science museum? You can show it to a paleontologist." "What's a paleontologist?" asked Scott. "Paleontologists are scientists who study fossils. They work to understand what life on Earth was like millions of years ago." "Maybe my fossil is a bone from a real dinosaur," Scott thought. That night Scott dreamed of huge dinosaurs. Two days later, Scott carried the fossil to the museum.  Dr. Irene Lewis, a paleontologist, was waiting for the class. She led them into a room filled with skeletons of dinosaurs. Dr. Lewis carefully opened Scott's paper bag. She took out the fossil. She looked surprised and excited. "Where did you find this?" she asked. Scott answered, "My dog Taffy dug it up near the new road." Dr. Lewis told the children that this fossil was a dinosaur's toe bone. She asked them to help her find out which dinosaur it came from. They all wanted to help very much. "Look at each dinosaur. Try to match the toe bone," she said. Scott looked at the feet of the huge Diplodocus. "These toe bones are too big," he decided. "How about the Tyrannosaurus Rex? It has huge teeth and pointed toe bones," said Scott's friend Julie. "No, this toe bone is square," answered Scott. The children looked at the dinosaurs one by one. Then Scott noticed the skeleton of a Hadrosaur. He looked at the toe bones. Then he shouted, "Here it is! This is my Dinosaur." Dr. Lewis smiled. "You're right, Scott." "Wow!" said Scott. "But what did it look like? How tall was it? What did it eat? Was it friendly?" he asked. "Wait, wait. Ask one question at a time." said Dr. Lewis. "First, the Hadrosaur's mouth was flat, like a duck's bill. Hadrosaurs are also called duckbills or duckbill dinosaurs. Second, the toe bone you found is large. It came from an adult. This dinosaur was over 10 meters long, or about as long as a bus. Finally, duckbill dinosaurs lived in herds and ate plants, like cows do now." "Imagine a whole herd of dinosaurs- all as big as a bus!" Scott gasped. "Come over here and I'll show you another kind of fossil," said Dr. Lewis. Dr. Lewis showed them a giant footprint in a rock. "This was made by a large dinosaur called Iguanodon."  "That's really big," said Scott. He thought about the tracks Taffy made in the mud. "That dinosaur's foot was much bigger than a dog's." Dr. Lewis smiled. Suddenly, Scott looked worried. "Dr. Lewis, are there more bones or any tracks by the new road? Will the dump trucks destroy them?" "No," said Dr. Lewis. "They will wait for us to look for more fossils. Then they will finish the road. We may find the rest of your duckbill. You children can watch. And Scott, you must bring Taffy along. He may be the best dinosaur hunter of all!"
Rooster John Before I tell you how Rooster John got his name you should know a little bit about the town of Franksville. Franksville was a town that seemed to have one problem after the other.  Their problems started when they ran out of water. Thankfully someone was digging a hole and found water. But soon after that they started to get flies. They got tons and tons of flies. Then the flies stopped, but just then a man moved into town who played the flute so badly that people would run away screaming. Maybe a poorly played flute doesn't sound all that bad, but just try to imagine someone scratching a chalkboard with a fork and then multiply that times a hundred. That's how the flute sounded when this guy played it. I'm serious. Still, it's not as bad as millions of flies I suppose. The bad flute player was Rooster John. He wasn't called Rooster John yet. That came later. He was the new town dentist. He was an excellent dentist, but his real love was music. He played many musical instruments such as the guitar, the tuba, the piano, and the clarinet. However, for some reason, the way his mouth was shaped made his flute sound awful.  "We can't let you play the flute anymore John," said Police Chief Sanders. "The neighbors are complaining and the cats and dogs are trying to chew off their ears."  "But, I have to play. I was born to do it. I don't know why, but I feel like I have to or else bad things will happen." "Look, John. I've heard you play the clarinet. You're quite good. Why don't you play that instead?" said Chief Sanders. "Oh, that's a nice instrument, but it's just not the flute! I even wrote you a song Chief Sanders. It's called, Cops and Robbers." Then he played the song. The Police Chief hated the sound so much that he threw John in jail. The bad flute player was Rooster John. He wasn't called Rooster John yet. That came later. He was the new town dentist. He was an excellent dentist, but his real love was music. He played many musical instruments such as the guitar, the tuba, the piano, and the clarinet. However, for some reason, the way his mouth was shaped made his flute sound awful.  "We can't let you play the flute anymore John," said Police Chief Sanders. "The neighbors are complaining and the cats and dogs are trying to chew off their ears."  "But, I have to play. I was born to do it. I don't know why, but I feel like I have to or else bad things will happen." "Look, John. I've heard you play the clarinet. You're quite good. Why don't you play that instead?" said Chief Sanders. "Oh, that's a nice instrument, but it's just not the flute! I even wrote you a song Chief Sanders. It's called, Cops and Robbers." Then he played the song. The Police Chief hated the sound so much that he threw John in jail. But they couldn't keep John in jail since he wasn't really breaking any laws so there was nothing the police could do. Besides, everybody loved John. Since he had become the town dentist, everybody's teeth were much whiter and cleaner and no one had any cavities.  So there was a problem in the little town of Franksville. What should they do? They couldn't keep John in jail and they didn't want to kick him out of town because they all had such nice teeth, so they decided that John could play the flute and everybody else would have to wear earplugs. Well, I'm sure you guessed that didn't work. No one could hear anything. People were getting into car accidents and everybody looked really silly at dances, dancing to music they couldn't hear. They just couldn't lead a normal life. Then they decided to lower him down a well and let him play down where no one could hear him. John thought that was an ok idea, but there was an echo in the well that made the flute sound LOUDER. Windows were breaking and all the cows in town started to make sour milk. The local scientist, Dr. Wong, came up with an idea. He thought that if he made a new mouthpiece especially shaped for John's mouth then perhaps he could play the flute normally. And guess what? It worked. Dr. Wong was the town hero! The flute sounded normal and it turned out John could play it quite well.  The people in the town decided to have a great big parade in Franksville to celebrate the fact that for once there was no water problem, no fly problem and no flute problem.  Dr. Wong and John were the stars of the parade. They were up on the main float. A big band played as they marched up and down Main Street. Everyone cheered.  Then suddenly, a fly landed on a little girl. Then a fly landed on someone else. Then some landed on a bunch of people. Then pretty soon tons of flies were landing on everyone! Before they knew it, the town was filled with flies again. "Oh no!" said Chief Sanders. "Just when things were going good for Franksville." John didn't know what to do so he just kept on playing his flute. The flies were annoying, so he would swat at them with his hand or even his new flute. He started shaking the flute to get the flies off and accidentally smashed it into pieces. He was very upset at first. Then he said, "Oh well. Good thing I brought my old flute as back-up." "No. No! Please don't play your old flute," begged Dr. Wong. But it was too late, John had started playing. When the townsfolk heard the noise they couldn't even swat at the flies anymore. They had to cover their ears from the horrible sound. The flies would land all over the people and they couldn't swat them off. It was gross! Then suddenly, the flies flew away fast as they could. Dr. Wong thought for a second then pronounced, "It's the flute sound! The flies hate John's flute playing as much as we do. John the dentist is driving the flies away!" It was then that the people of Franksville realized that they would have to take the good with the bad, because as bad as the flute sounded, it was a lot better than thousands of flies crawling on them. From then on, John would wake up at sunrise like a Rooster and play to keep the flies away. 
Ramon and Rita sat on the back porch of their new home. They had moved to the country just two weeks ago. Ramon still missed the city. He missed their old school. He missed playing with his friends on their street. Rita finished tying string onto a kite. "What a great day for flying a kite." She smiled at her brother. "Just listen to the wind in the trees." "I hate the country," Ramon said. "It's too quiet here." "It's not so quiet," said Rita. "There are lots of sounds. They're just not the same kinds of sounds that you hear in New York. Just listen, Ramon." Ramon listened. He heard birds singing.  He heard cowbells ringing from the farm down the road. He heard the soft sound of wind blowing through the trees. Then they heard something strange. "What was that?" asked Rita. "I don't know." Ramon looked around the porch. He saw nothing but some empty bottles. "I think the house is groaning," whispered Rita. "Maybe it's the wind," said Ramon. "The sound stops when the wind stops. It starts when the wind blows." "It's the house that's making the noise. I don't like it, Ramon," said Rita. The wind blew. They heard the sound again. This time, Ramon knew what it was. Ramon walked over to the empty bottles on the porch, and Rita followed. He picked up a bottle and blew across the top of it. There it was - that strange sound! "So that's what's been making those odd noises," said a voice behind them. Their mother was standing at the door. "Why does the bottle make that sound, Mom?" asked Rita. She felt silly for thinking that the house had groaned. "Come inside," said their mother. "We can talk while I work." Ramon and Rita picked up the bottles and followed their mother into the house. Several boxes sat on the kitchen floor. Mom was taking dishes out of one box and putting them away. "When you blow across the top of a bottle," Mom explained, "the air inside the bottle vibrates." "What does vibrate mean?" asked Ramon. "Well, the air inside the bottle moves back and forth very quickly," Mom answered. "These movements are called vibrations." Dad came into the room. "Look, kids," he said. "I can show you what vibrations are." He held a rubber band in his hand. Dad pulled the rubber band tight between two fingers. "Pull the rubber band, Rita," he said, "and then let it go." Ramon watched. Rita pulled the rubber band and let it go. It moved quickly. It made a funny sound. "Did you see the rubber band vibrate?" asked Dad. "It moved back and forth very fast, and it made the air around it move very fast." "The air moving back and forth, those movements are vibrations, right?" asked Ramon. "And vibrations make the sounds, right?" asked Rita. Mom smiled. "You're both right!" she said. "Those vibrations move through the air into our ears," Mom explained. "Our ears send a message to our brain. And that's how we hear sounds." Rita picked up a bottle. It was shorter than the others. She blew across the top of it. "That bottle sounds like a whistle!" said Ramon. "That's right," said Dad. "A tall bottle makes a deep sound. There is more room inside it for the air to vibrate. A shorter bottle makes a higher sound. It has less room inside for the air to vibrate." "Dad," said Ramon, "we have many sizes of bottles. Will they all make different sounds?" "Let's try them," said Dad. Each bottle made a different sound. "I told you there were lots of things to hear around here," joked Rita. Then a new sound filled the room. "It's thunder," said Mom. "There must be a storm coming." "We'd better shut the windows." Ramon and Rita raced to close the windows. Dad closed the door. They finished just in time. The wind started blowing harder. Suddenly the house really did begin to groan! Everyone looked around. "Where is that awful noise coming from?" asked Mom. "I never heard a sound like that in New York," Rita whispered. Ramon was standing near the fireplace when they heard the groan again. "I think it's coming from the fireplace," he said. "The fireplace is making that spooky sound!" The wind slowed down for a moment. The house became quiet again. Rita began to laugh. "It's not spooky," she said. "It's just the chimney. The chimney is like a giant bottle. When the wind blows over it, the air inside vibrates." "And because it's so tall, it makes a really deep sound," Ramon added. "I think Ramon and Rita are right," laughed Mom. As if to prove what they had said, the wind blew again. The house groaned.
"Hey, Julio. Did you hear? There's going to be a big race in four weeks," said Derek to his friend. "I'm going to race in it, and I'm going to win." Julio laughed at Derek and said, "Oh, really? Prove it! I'll race you to my house, and we'll see who wins." "Ready, set, go," shouted Derek. The two boys ran as fast as they could. At first they were running at the same speed. "He's not so great," thought Julio. But after a while, Derek was far ahead of Julio. Derek turned and shouted, "Told you! Told you! I'm going to win the race. You might as well not even sign up, Julio." Julio was mad. He could hardly catch his breath. His body felt tired. When he got home, he slammed the door behind him. "What's wrong?" his big sister Elena asked. "There's going to be a big race. Derek is going to beat me. He beats me at everything," Julio said sadly. Elena had an idea. "Why don't you train for the race?" "How do I do that?" Julio asked. "Come to track practice tomorrow. You can talk to my coach. I'm sure she can help you," said Elena. The next day, Julio went to see Coach Benson. "If you want to be a better runner, there are three things you should do," she said. "First you should run for fifteen minutes every day." "How will that help?" asked Julio. "When you run, you use a lot of muscles in your body," explained Coach Benson. "Your muscles aren't used to running. If you run a little every day, your muscles will get stronger. Muscles that are exercised can work longer without getting tired." "OK." said Julio. "What else can I do?" "In a race, you not only want to be able to run and not get tired, you also want to run fast," said Coach Benson. "So the second thing you should do is some sprinting. You should do it every other day. Do you know what sprinting means?" Julio thought for a moment. He had never heard that word before. "I don't think so, Coach," he said. "Pick a spot that is not too far away. Race to it as fast as you can. Rest for a minute, then race back to where you started. That's what sprinting means. Do that four times," explained Coach Benson. "And don't forget to warm up before you run. That is the third important thing to do. Your sister can show you how." Julio looked at Elena. "What does warm up mean?" he asked. "Warming up means doing stretching exercises," Elena said. "You stretch your muscles. Muscles that haven't been stretched can get hurt. It is always good to stretch before running." "OK, big sister, show me what to do," said Julio. For the next four weeks, Julio went to the park every day. Training for the race was not easy. Sometimes he didn't feel like running, but he made himself do it anyway. He practiced just like the coach and his sister had told him to. He always stretched his muscles before he ran. Every other day Julio worked on his speed. He would choose a tree not too far away and race to it. He would rest by counting to sixty. Then he would run back to where he started. Then he'd do it over again. Each time he practiced sprinting, he thought of what it would be like when he beat Derek in the big race. At first, Julio found it hard to run. He was out of breath. He could feel his heart pounding in his chest. But as the days passed, he ran longer and farther without getting tired. His muscles got stronger. The stronger he got, the more he could run. He used his watch to time himself, and he knew he was getting faster. He was happy at how well he was doing. Now when he ran his heart beat steadily. Every day he wrote down in his notebook how much he had run. Finally the day of the big race came. Everyone in school was at the track. The runners lined up to start. Derek turned to Julio and said, "I'm surprised that you're even here. I'm the one who will win this race." Julio didn't say anything. He was too busy warming up. At last the big moment came. The principal of the school called out, "On your mark! Get set! GO!" The race was on! As quickly as they could, Derek and another runner named Beth took the lead. Suddenly, Derek started to slow down.  He was tired and out of breath. As they raced around the track, Julio sped past Derek. Now Beth was the only runner ahead of Julio. He poured on the speed. But so did Beth. Now Julio understood why the coach had told him to practice sprinting. As the two runners crossed the finish line, Julio broke the tape. Beth was a close second. Julio beamed as the principal placed a medal around his neck. He had run his very best that day. And he had beaten Derek. Julio turned to Beth. "I bet you practice, don't you?" "Sure I do. I want to be on the track team some day," said Beth. "So do I," said Julio. "Do you think we could practice running together?" "OK. Meet me tomorrow afternoon," she said. "You're on!" Julio grinned.
The Slowest Turtle Every four years, turtles from all over the land would crawl to Great Pond. It would take some turtles from far away villages two whole weeks just to get there. When all the turtles arrived there was a seven day festival called the Shell Dwellers Festival where there was lots of eating and laughing. Turtles could catch up with friends they had not seen since the last festival.  Everything about the festival was fun, but the main event was the Great Turtle Race.  The winner of the Great Turtle Race was so important that he or she didn't have to move for four years, until the next festival. The less a turtle moves the bigger they get and the longer they live. So you can see winning the Great Race is a great honor.  The Slowest Turtle Every four years, turtles from all over the land would crawl to Great Pond. It would take some turtles from far away villages two whole weeks just to get there. When all the turtles arrived there was a seven day festival called the Shell Dwellers Festival where there was lots of eating and laughing. Turtles could catch up with friends they had not seen since the last festival.  Everything about the festival was fun, but the main event was the Great Turtle Race.  The winner of the Great Turtle Race was so important that he or she didn't have to move for four years, until the next festival. The less a turtle moves the bigger they get and the longer they live. So you can see winning the Great Race is a great honor.  The Slowest Turtle Every four years, turtles from all over the land would crawl to Great Pond. It would take some turtles from far away villages two whole weeks just to get there. When all the turtles arrived there was a seven day festival called the Shell Dwellers Festival where there was lots of eating and laughing. Turtles could catch up with friends they had not seen since the last festival.  Everything about the festival was fun, but the main event was the Great Turtle Race.  The winner of the Great Turtle Race was so important that he or she didn't have to move for four years, until the next festival. The less a turtle moves the bigger they get and the longer they live. So you can see winning the Great Race is a great honor.  The Turtle Cup was the trophy that the winner would take home to their village. It had been in Sludge Pond for over fifty years because no one could ever beat their turtle. This was the most famous turtle there was. He was the slowest turtle of all time. He hadn't had to move for over fifty years! He was the biggest, most respected and also one of the trickiest turtles there was. There were many legends about him. It was rumored he was so slow, his heart would only beat once a day. His name was Mud, and he was the greatest champion in the history of Shell Dweller's Festival. He was unbeatable.  When Mud was in his prime there was a new turtle born in "Blue Pond". This turtle was named Swish. When Swish was born everyone thought he was a little slow, but as he got a little older the turtles began to realize that Swish was really, really, REALLY slow. Once his mother called him in for dinner and he didn't make it home until breakfast the next morning (and he was only a foot away)!!! Blue Pond was a nice village located about three days crawl from Great Pond. They all felt a little sad because they hadn't held the Turtle Cup in over a seven hundred years. So, with Swish, they thought, maybe, just maybe he could bring back the Turtle Cup to their little pond.  Everyone treated Swish differently. For example, Mr. Peeks, the local shell cleaner would say, "Hey there Swish, do you want a free shell waxing today? We all want you to look good when you bring home the Cup. Mrs. Snapper would say, "Hi Swishy, do you want some yummy pie to fill you up and slow you down for the big race. A fat turtle is a slow turtle."  Mrs. Snapper was never nice to anyone but she was being nice to Swish. Mr. Peeks would never do anything for free, but he was going to give Swish a free shell waxing. This was the kind of thing that Swish would get all the time.  All the extra attention made Swish very uncomfortable. He thought, "Sure they are nice to me now, because they think I can win the race, but if I lose they'll be disappointed and mad at me. I never promised that I would win the race. I can't beat Mud anyway. I heard once it took him three days just to yawn."  So one day he told his parents, "I don't want to race! " All the turtles in "Blue Pond" held a meeting to discuss the problem. The mayor, Dr. Softshell said, "This is ridiculous! Swish has to race! He's the slowest turtle I've every seen, except for Mud of course. Without him we don't have a chance!" "But he doesn't want to be treated special! He just wants to be normal and he doesn't want everybody to hate him if he can't beat Mud. You have to remember that even though he's gifted at being slow, he's still very young.," said Swish's father. "We never thought of that," they all said. The town agreed to treat Swish like a normal turtle and after a while Swish decided that he would be proud to race for his village. When the time of the festival drew near all the turtles in the land started toward Great Pond. Swish had to be carried on his father's back since it would have taken him months to get to Great Pond by himself. Finally, after the long journey, all the turtles arrived at Great Pond.  This was Swish's first ever Shell Dwellers Festival and he thought it was the most wonderful thing he had ever seen. There were thousands of turtles of all different species, all having a great time.  "Look there's your cousin, Peek-a-Boo from 'Big Puddle' village," said Swish's mother. "You'll get to meet all sorts of new turtles." Swish was suddenly very excited. He told his mom, "You know what, I'm going to win this race. I know it! And all these turtles will know that Blue Pond rules! I'm not afraid of stupid, Mud."  Swish's mom smiled and said, "I know that you can win Swish, but it's an honor just to get to race," said Swish's mom.  Swish saw a rock in the middle of the field and wondered, "How come they don't move that big rock out of the field? It seems to be in everyone's way," said Swish. "That's not a rock, Sweetie," said his mom, "That's Mud!" Swish made a loud "gulp" sound. "Just do your best." said his mom. Swishes father said, "Son, I have something to tell you. As you know, your great, great grand-turtle raced Mud once. He wasn't as slow as you but he did teach about Mud's dirty tricks. Then he whispered in Swish's ear all the tricks that his great, great grand- turtle taught him. After seven days of playing and dancing and bug eating, finally, the day of the race came.  The Mayor of Great Pond, Mrs. Tort , posted the rules of the race on a tree for everyone to see.  They read: Rule Number One-The Great Race begins at Sunrise and ends at Sunset. Rule Number Two-All turtles must run as fast as they can and the turtle that is closest to the starting line wins.  Rule number Three-No turtle may pretend to be going fast but go slow instead. All turtle must go as fast as they can at all times. SINCE TURTLES NEVER CHEAT THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT RULE! TO BREAK THIS RULE WOULD MEAN AN END TO THE GREAT TURTLE RACE FOREVER. Rule Number Four-No turtle may fall asleep, since, if you are asleep, you aren't running as fast as you can.  Swish read the rules even though he knew them by heart. Then he heard the Mayor say, "Runner's, please take your positions."  The slowest turtles from each pond were carried to the starting line by members of their villages. There were about three hundred turtles racing. They were all the slowest of the slow. The turtles all stretched and thought really slow thoughts. As they did the sky turned from black to dark blue. They looked at the horizon and saw the sun was starting the rise. Just then the Mayor said, "Ready, Set, Slow!" and off they went.  All the turtles were very, very slow, so it took some time before anyone could figure out which turtles were the slowest. After a few hours, most of the turtles had gone a few feet. All except two. Swish and Mud were both back at the starting line. It looked as if neither of them had moved at all. They were both moving of course, but they were so slow that it was hard to tell. After six hours Mud and Swish were still tied and had only moved a few inches.  By now all the turtles were usually way ahead of Mud, but this time Swish was just as slow! Mud knew that this would be his closest race ever and he was actually getting a little bit scared. "Who, is this young punk?" he thought to himself.  Mud said to Swish, "There's no way that a turtle as young as you can be so slow. Even I was faster than you when I was your age. You're cheating. You're going to ruin the Great Race forever." But Swish wouldn't let Mud scare him. "You're just trying to make me quit. I'm not going to fall for your tricks!" he said. "Turtles never cheat and I'm a turtle with honor!" Then Mud tried another trick. He started singing a soft, beautiful lullaby. Swish started yawning. He was tired from racing and thought that it would be nice to just listen to Mud's sweet voice and fall asleep. Then he snapped out of it and remembered his father had warned him of this trick. He reached in his shell and pulled out a couple of earplugs! He put the earplugs in his ears and couldn't hear Mud's singing anymore. Mud kept singing his lullaby for a few hours but he stopped right before sunset. The crowd thought he must have realized that his singing trick wasn't working. But then right at the end, right before the sunset, Swish started to pull ahead of Mud! "Oh, no!" shouted the fans. "Mud's winning! It looks like Mud is still the greatest turtle of them all." And when the sun went down, Mud was the closest turtle to the starting line.  Swish was sad that he lost but all the turtles from Blue Pond cheered for Swish. They were very proud he gave Mud such a close race. Swish was happy too, but deep down inside he knew he was just as slow as Mud. The Mayor of Pondland went to present the Turtle Cup to Sludge Pond again.  She announced, "Well Mud, it looks like you've done it! Sludge Pond wins the Turtle Cup again! This time it was a bit closer than you would have liked I'll bet. What would you like to say to all the turtles at the festival?"  The crowd started yelling, "Speech! Speech!"  Mud didn't answer. The Mayor tapped Mud on the shell and said "Hello. Hello! Mud!" Mud still didn't answer. In fact, Mud was sound asleep. Mud had actually sung HIMSELF to sleep. "Ladies and Gentlemen," she said, "Mud from Sludge Pond has been disqualified for sleeping during the race. This means that we have a new champion! The real winner is Swish Softbelly of Blue Pond." The crowd went wild.  Mrs. Tort went up to Swish and gave him the Turtle Cup. She said, "Swish, you are the youngest winner of the Great Turtle Race. That was the most exciting finish we've ever had. I think that you'll be a great champion for many years, since turtles only get slower with age. For the first time in six hundred years I would like to present the Turtle Cup to Blue Pond." The crowd went wild again. Swish took the Cup that day for the first time. He would take it many more times after that. It was because of Swish that Blue Pond became the most respected pond in the land. He would never lose the Turtle Cup for the rest of his long life. But though he became the greatest and biggest turtle of all time, much greater or bigger than Mud, he always made sure that no one treated him special and that he treated everybody like he wanted to be treated. Like a turtle with honor.
Armies In The Fire by Robert Louis Stevenson Illustrated By Nigel Sussman The lamps now glitter down the street; Faintly sound the falling feet; And the blue even slowly falls About the garden trees and walls. Now in the falling of the gloom The red fire paints the empty room: And warmly on the roof it looks, And flickers on the back of books. Armies march by tower and spire Of cities blazing, in the fire;-- Till as I gaze with staring eyes, The armies fade, the lustre dies. Then once again the glow returns; Again the phantom city burns; And down the red-hot valley, lo! The phantom armies marching go! Blinking embers, tell me true Where are those armies marching to, And what the burning city is That crumbles in your furnaces!
Pete stared into the pine forests of the Georgia mountains. The land didn't seem as beautiful now as it had earlier. He picked up a stick and poked at the campfire. Pete's father was hurt. He was lying on the ground with his broken leg wrapped in cloth. "Amos, you crazy mule!" Pete yelled at the grazing animal. "If you had not run from that bear, Father wouldn't have fallen off!" There were few towns and no doctors in the Georgia mountains in 1765. Pete and his father had set the broken bone in place, but healing would take a long time.  Pete and his father had been hunting for plants. Pete's father was a botanist, or plant expert. The Cherokee called him "Flower Hunter." Pete wanted to be a flower hunter, too. "Son, I want you to look carefully at every flower," Pete's father had said on an earlier trip. "Some plants don't have flowers!" Pete had answered. "You're right," his father had said. "That fir tree doesn't have flowers. It's a conifer, or cone-bearing plant. It has hard brown cones." Pete stared into the pine forests of the Georgia mountains. The land didn't seem as beautiful now as it had earlier. He picked up a stick and poked at the campfire. Pete's father was hurt. He was lying on the ground with his broken leg wrapped in cloth. "Amos, you crazy mule!" Pete yelled at the grazing animal. "If you had not run from that bear, Father wouldn't have fallen off!" There were few towns and no doctors in the Georgia mountains in 1765. Pete and his father had set the broken bone in place, but healing would take a long time.  Pete and his father had been hunting for plants. Pete's father was a botanist, or plant expert. The Cherokee called him "Flower Hunter." Pete wanted to be a flower hunter, too. "Son, I want you to look carefully at every flower," Pete's father had said on an earlier trip. "Some plants don't have flowers!" Pete had answered. "You're right," his father had said. "That fir tree doesn't have flowers. It's a conifer, or cone-bearing plant. It has hard brown cones." "Like pine cones," said Pete. "Yes. Do you know what these cones have inside them?" asked his father. Pete opened a cone. "Seeds," he said. "Father, do all plants have seeds?" "Most plants do. They are divided into two groups. One is flowering plants. The other is cone-bearing plants. Flowering plants have seeds inside fruits, and cone-bearing plants have seeds in cones." On the last hunting trip, Pete had discovered the two kinds of flowering plants. One kind, monocots, have flowers with groups of three petals. Dicots have flowers with groups of four or five petals. It was fun looking at all those plants. Pete heard his father call. This was no time for gazing into campfires. "Peter! Come here please. I think my leg is infected. I have a bad fever," his father said in a tired voice. "You must help me, son. Some plants can help me get well. Bring me willow bark, boneset, and pine sap for my leg. Club moss, too, if you can. Please hurry!" Pete was afraid. Could he find the right plants? He would have to try. He hurried off into the woods. It was easy to find the willow bark. Willows with long, skinny leaves were growing by the river. Pete liked their sharp smell. He stripped off some bark and put it in his pouch. Finding pine sap was easy, too. Pine trees stood all around him. He saw their prickly cones and smelled their green needles. Pete picked lumps of sap from the bark. Tiny club moss plants grew under the pines. They looked like toy trees. Pete remembered that club moss is a nonseed plant. It has spores instead of seeds. He shook the plants over a small jar. Soon the jar was full of spores. Now Pete started to hunt for the boneset plant. He searched everywhere. He was getting hungry. His feet hurt and scratches covered his arms. Finally, he found a few plants that looked right. But how could he be sure? He thought back to his lessons about plants. Pete's father had told him that a good botanist carefully checks the petals, fruit, leaves, stems, and roots to find each kind of plant. His father always reminded Pete that there was a lot to know about plants. Thinking again of the lessons his father had given him, Pete felt sad. Would his father be all right? Pete knew he must find the right plant. His father's life depended on what he had learned. He examined a plant he thought might be boneset. It had the right kind of small white flowers. The leaves were opposite each other on the stems, too.  Each leaf had a partner right across from it. For one last test, Pete dug up the plant and looked at the root. The root was fat and bumpy, exactly right for boneset. As Pete left the clearing he saw a bush with something white on it. He went closer. The bush had shiny green leaves. Some leaves were turning red. It had large white flowers. Pete had never seen anything so pretty. "Father will like this," he thought. He knew better than to touch a strange plant, but he studied it closely. Then he returned to camp. Pete showed his father the plants he had found. He told him about the strange plant with the white flowers, too. "Yes, these are the right plants, son." His father smiled. "But where did you find that plant with the white flowers?" "I'll show you when you are feeling better," said Pete. "Good," said his father. Pete boiled some water in a cup. He put the willow bark and the boneset in the water to make tea. After letting it sit for a while, Pete's father drank the tea. Pete put the pine sap and club moss spores on his father's leg. Then Pete's father slept for hours. When he awoke, Pete's father felt much better. The willow bark and boneset had made his fever go away. The club moss spores and the pine sap were helping his infected leg heal. "Peter can you help me make a crutch?" asked his father. "Then I want you to take me to see that plant with the white flowers." "It's in this clearing by the river," Pete explained. They hiked to the clearing. Pete's father studied the plant. "You've made an exciting discovery!" he said. "We'll take some cuttings from this plant. And you can name it." "I think we should name it for your friend Ben Franklin. He likes science. He'll like to have a plant named for him." "That's a fine idea," his father added, looking at him proudly. "And Pete, you're going to be a great flower hunter."
The Airplane Ride The first time I ever took an airplane by myself it was fun and scary. I didn't know anyone at all and had to go all the way from New York to Texas without my parents. I was flying there to see my grandfather and we were going to go fishing.  I've always thought flying was fun. You go higher than any mountain and you go faster than any car. But to tell you the truth, without my parents there, I was pretty nervous. I guess it was because the plane was so loud and I didn't know anyone. I started thinking we might crash. I didn't like to think about that, but I couldn't help it. That's when I missed my parents the most. But once the plane was in the air I was pretty good. The Airplane Ride The first time I ever took an airplane by myself it was fun and scary. I didn't know anyone at all and had to go all the way from New York to Texas without my parents. I was flying there to see my grandfather and we were going to go fishing.  I've always thought flying was fun. You go higher than any mountain and you go faster than any car. But to tell you the truth, without my parents there, I was pretty nervous. I guess it was because the plane was so loud and I didn't know anyone. I started thinking we might crash. I didn't like to think about that, but I couldn't help it. That's when I missed my parents the most. But once the plane was in the air I was pretty good. My mom gave me a coloring book of cool looking dragons to keep me busy. I colored the dragon pictures all green, so it didn't take very long. I only used the green crayon because it was the tallest and I wanted it to catch up to the red, brown, blue, yellow, purple and black ones. One thing about being by yourself on an airplane is that the flight attendants are very nice to you. I had seven cola's and four ginger ale's which made me have to go to the bathroom eight times. I was glad that there wasn't anyone next to me. The person next to me would have been very annoyed.  Eventually, the flight attendant seemed to get a little annoyed that I had to go to the bathroom so much. But it was her fault! She was the one that kept trying to give me peanuts. I told her that I wanted a banana split instead, but she said, "They don't have any banana splits on the plane, but sometimes people like to eat peanuts on their banana splits." I told her that it was the peanuts that were making me so thirsty in the first place and that if she would get me a banana split I wouldn't have to go to the bathroom so much!  She told me to be quiet and watch the movie. I tried to watch the movie, but I had already seen that one so it was boring. The flight attendant gave me a deck of cards, but she wouldn't play "Go Fish" with me. She said that she had to help other passengers. 
Maria was proud of the plan she had drawn. She had even signed her name at the bottom. But she still needed some advice from her cousin Francine. Francine was an engineer. She'd know the best place to build the clubhouse. Francine was staying at & the Ruiz ranch while she studied earthquakes. She was also studying how to build buildings that would not fall down in an earthquake. "Do you like it?" Maria asked as Francine spread out the plan on the kitchen table. "Is the plan okay? Where should my friends and I build our clubhouse?" "One question at a time," Francine laughed. "You have a good plan, but the walls should be made of wood, not bricks." "But Dad and I dug up the bricks from the old patio. They're still good," Maria explained. "It's great to reuse materials," Francine said. "But bricks can fall on you during an earthquake." "We haven't had an earthquake here for a long time," Mr. Ruiz said as he came into the kitchen. "So why worry?" "You don't have to worry, but I believe people should be prepared," Francine said. "Earthquakes have done a lot of damage in some parts of California." "Will there ever be an earthquake near our ranch?" Maria asked.  "We don't know for sure," Francine said. "Our studies show that there has been some minor seismic activity near here." "What's seismic activity?" Maria asked. "During most earthquakes, rock deep inside the earth moves and breaks apart. When the broken rock shakes, it sends out vibrations that move the earth. These vibrations are called seismic waves. It's like dropping a stone in a pool of water." Maria nodded. "The stone splashes and waves go out in a circle," she said. "Right," Francine said. "Sometimes the earth rolls up and down. If an earthquake is strong enough, it can cause buildings to fall apart, but you can make some buildings almost earthquake proof." "How?" Maria asked. "First you need to find a place to build on that's solid, like that area by the barn. There's probably granite deep under the dirt there. Granite is a very hard rock. It usually stays firm in an earthquake." Francine picked up a pencil and quickly made a sketch. "When you build, you should use wood and put a brace here and here." "Hey, I have an idea." Mr. Ruiz looked over Francine's shoulder. "You can build the clubhouse on that square of concrete near the barn. We used to have a shed there. When the wood rotted, I tore it down." "That's great," Francine said. "The building can be braced on the concrete." "Thanks, Dad. And thanks for your help, Francine," Maria said. "I'm going to find my friends and tell them we'll start building tomorrow!" One of Maria's friends brought sturdy wood for the sides of their building. Another brought a piece of canvas for the roof. By the end of the week, the clubhouse was nearly finished. "Good choice for the roof," Francine said one afternoon as she checked on their progress. "Canvas is lightweight, so it won't hurt anyone if there's an earthquake." The last job was to make a sign. Maria had just finished when Calico, her cat, streaked past. Calico scampered up a pile of bricks, jumped onto the clubhouse, and disappeared over the other side. Maria shook her head. Calico had never acted like this. Then Maria felt the ground shake. She looked over toward the barn. The farm bell was ringing by itself! Maria couldn't believe what was happening. For a minute Maria could not move. Her father walked over to her side. "Are you okay?" Francine ran toward them. "We just had an earthquake! It wasn't very strong, but a few dishes fell off the shelves," she said. "I ducked under the table so I'd be safe. I'm glad you two were out in the open. Nothing could fall on you." "Oh, it was only a little rock and roll." Mr. Ruiz tried to smile. "Did you know this earthquake was coming?" "Unfortunately, no," Francine said. "However there were a few signs, like more seismic activity. And today the chickens were acting strangely." "Calico, too!" Maria remembered. Francine nodded. "Animals may feel movement deep in the earth before we can feel it. But we can't depend on them. We have to learn what to do when an earthquake strikes." "Right," Maria said with a smile. "Like building an earthquake proof clubhouse!"
That Monday Ruth leaned back in the warm grass. She could see a cloud dragon.  Suddenly a door slammed.  "Doc is home!" Ruth said, jumping to her feet.  Doctor Bell lived next door. Doc liked to ride in balloons. Doc took her big balloon to the park. Her friends always helped to fill the balloon with air, then to heat the air so the balloon would rise. Doc would climb into a large basket tied to the balloon. Then the balloon would lift Doc high toward the clouds. Ruth found Doc by her garage. She was looking at her big thermometer. Ruth knew that the thermometer measures the temperature of the air. As the air warms, the red liquid in the glass tube rises. As the air cools, the red liquid in the tube falls.  "Balloons are hard to fly," said doc. "You need the right kind of weather." She looked at the sky. "Let's see what the clouds tell us about the weather." Ruth laughed. "How can the clouds tell us anything?" Doc pointed to the fluffy white clouds in the sky. "Those are cumulus clouds. They tell us that fair weather is here. Fair weather is balloon weather," said Doc. Ruth smiled. "They look like balls of cotton." Doc showed Ruth pictures of the other kinds of clouds. "Cirrus clouds, high in the sky, are thin, white, and curly. They tell me that the weather might & change in about a day." "So, cumulus clouds mean it's nice out, and cirrus clouds mean change," said Ruth. "A third kind of cloud to look for is stratus," said Doc. "It is a thick, low cloud that covers the sky. Fog is a stratus cloud near the ground."  "What are clouds made of?" asked Ruth.  "Clouds are made of tiny drops of water or bits of ice," Doc explained. "I have an idea," she said suddenly. "You watch the clouds this week. When the weather is right, we'll go for a balloon ride." Ruth asked her parents if she could go, and they said 'yes'. She couldn't wait! The next morning Ruth saw fog. The sky was filled with thick, low clouds. "Stratus clouds," she said. "No balloon ride today." On Wednesday the sun was shining. Ruth dressed in a rush and ran to find Doc.  She opened the back door. She saw Mr. Hill's flag flapping in the wind. She thought about being blown across the sky in the big balloon.  "I can see why balloonists don't go up in the wind!" she thought. It wasn't balloon weather after all.  Early Thursday morning Ruth called Doc. "There's no rain or wind. The weather is just right. There are only a few cumulus clouds in the sky!"  "You're right, Ruth," said Doc. "Let's go!"  At the park, Ruth watched the big orange balloon fill with air. It got bigger and bigger. The balloon looked like a big pumpkin to Ruth.  "IT'S A PUMPKIN BALLOON!" she shouted. Doc helped her climb into the basket. Doc's friends untied the ropes. Slowly the balloon rose.  Ruth's eyes got very big. "I feel just like a bird!" The pumpkin balloon floated over the land. It floated above Ruth's school. It floated above Mr. Hill's flag. It was so nice to be up high. But in less than an hour, the wind began to blow.  "We'd better land now," said Doc. Ruth didn't mind. She'd had a great time. Soon, the big pumpkin balloon was back on the ground. "Thank you very much, Doc," said Ruth. "Sure," Doc replied. "I like having company. Would you like to go up again?"  "Oh, yes!" said Ruth.  What a good day it had been! Now Ruth would watch the sky every day. She could hardly wait for a clear, blue sky or some cumulus clouds without any wind. Then it would be time for another ride in the pumpkin balloon. 
Maya walked slowly from the spaceship and took a deep breath. All the kids from Maya's planet came to Matterdome at the end of every school year. Each year they got a different problem. They had to solve the problem to enter the next grade. This was Maya's first trip. She had been wondering about her problem all year. Today she would find out. Maya opened her envelope and read her problem: You must find three forms of water. Hint: Use what you know about matter.  "Hmmm," Maya said. She spoke to her robot computer. "Define matter." The robot computer buzzed and blinked. Words appeared on its screen: Matter: Anything that takes up space and has mass. "Well," Maya thought. "I know that water takes up space and has mass. So water must be matter."  Maya heard her teacher, Ms. Wong. Her voice came from a loudspeaker on the spaceship. "Get started, students. You only have two hours to solve your problems." Maya opened her map of Matterdome and looked at it. She circled the places that she thought might have water. Then she turned on her jet pack, waved at the spaceship, and flew off. As she flew, Maya thought about her problem. "I must find three forms of water. Water is matter. Can matter have more than one form?" Again, Maya spoke to her robot. "List forms of matter." The robot's screen flashed the answer: Matter can be a solid, a liquid, or a gas. "Water is matter," Maya thought. "It must have three forms, too. I must find water as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. I know where there's liquid water." She flew to the Lake of Tears and landed on its shore. She took a jar from her pack and the robot filled it. "That's liquid water," she said. "Now I need the two other forms." Maya checked the map and flew toward the Frozen Mountains. Maya arrived at the Frozen Mountains and landed at the bottom of an ice cliff. She shut off her jet pack and spoke to her robot. "Question: What is ice?" The robot blinked: Ice is a solid. It is frozen water." "Hey, this isn't so hard," Maya smiled. "Ice is the second form of water!" She picked up a rock and broke off a piece of ice. She dropped the ice into a plastic bag. "Now I need to find a third form of water," she thought. "What can it be?" She looked at the map again. Both Slimy Swamp and Steaming Springs looked like good places to find water. Steaming Springs was closer. "I'll go there first," Maya decided. She turned on the jet pack and flew off to the Springs. Time was running out. Maya landed in Steaming Springs. She spoke to her robot once again. "Question: What is steam?" The robot buzzed. Steam is a gas. It is water in a gas form. "Steam is the third form of water! I've found it!" Maya told the robot to fill a plastic bag with steam. The bag filled like a balloon. Maya sealed the mouth of the bag. "Now, back to the ship!" she cried. When Maya got back to the ship, Ms. Wong was outside waiting for her. She smiled. "Oh Maya, I was worried about you. Did you solve your problem?" "Yes, Ms. Wong," replied Maya. "It was easy!" "Really?" the teacher asked. "Yes!" Maya said, "I learned that matter has three forms: solid, liquid, and gas. Water is matter. I found three forms of water to solve my problem."  Maya opened her pack. She pulled out the jar. "Here is the liquid water." Then she took out a plastic bag. "And here is steam, the gas-" Maya was shocked.  The plastic bag didn't look like a balloon anymore. It held only a few drops of water. "What about the third form?" asked Ms. Wong. Maya didn't know what to say. The other plastic bag held only liquid water, too. "What happened?" she cried. "I really did find three different forms of water. Now I have only one." Ms. Wong laughed. "It's OK, Maya. You've learned something else about matter. When you heat or cool matter, it can change form. Heat melted the solid ice. The steam cooled and became liquid." "You mean I passed?" asked Maya in surprise. "Yes, you did," answered Ms. Wong. Maya ran happily into the spaceship. She was wondering what next year's problem would be.
Mr. Gray lived next door.  He never smiled. Bill felt sad.  He wanted to cheer up Mr. Gray. Bill thought about the contest at Mr. Higgins' store. Mr. Higgins had a jar filled with marbles. The child who guessed the number of marbles would win them all. "I will win the marbles," thought Bill. "I will give them to Mr. Gray. That will make him happy!" Bill ran to the store. "How much does that jar weigh?" he asked Mr. Higgins. Mr. Higgins put the jar on a scale. "Five pounds! That's a lot of marbles!" Bill said. He ran to the door. "Goodbye, Mr. Higgins. I am going to Aunt Jane's house. I know how to win the contest." "Hi, Aunt Jane," said Bill. " Can I use your old marbles? I want to win the contest at Mr. Higgins' store." "How will my marbles help?" asked Aunt Jane. She handed Bill a big bag of marbles. "Mr. Higgins weighed the jar of marbles," said Bill. "It weighed five pounds. I will find out how many marbles make five pounds." "I have some jars," said Aunt Jane. "Does Mr. Higgins' jar look like one of these?" Bill looked at Aunt Jane's jars. One looked bigger than Mr. Higgins's jar. One was smaller. The third was about the same size. "You can use my scale," said Aunt Jane. Bill put the big jar on the scale. He filled it with marbles. The marbles weighed six pounds. Then he filled the small jar. The marbles weighed three pounds. Then he filled the third jar with marbles. The marbles weighed five pounds. That was the same as Mr. Higgins' jar. "Now I will count the marbles," Bill said. Bill counted 360 marbles. He wrote that number. The next day, Bill went to the store. "Mr. Higgins, I have my number," Bill said. "Good," said Mr. Higgins. "Let me see it." He read the number on the paper. "Bill, you win! How did you find out the number?" "I filled three jars with marbles and weighed them," said Bill. "One jar weighed five pounds. I counted the marbles in that jar." "That was smart, Bill," said Mr. Higgins. "Thank you, Mr. Higgins," said Bill. He took the jar. "Now I can go to see Mr. Gray." Mr. Gray was on his porch. "I brought you a gift," Bill said. "I won it in a contest. I won it for you." Mr. Gray didn't smile. Bill started to leave. "Wait," said Mr. Gray. " Won't you stay and play marbles?" Bill turned to look at Mr. Gray. Mr. Gray was smiling! He looked happy. "Sure!" Bill said.
The doorbell rang. Rosa put down her new camera. She went to the door. She saw Mrs. Fine, her neighbor. "Hi, Rosa," Mrs. Fine said. "Is your Dad home?" "I'm right here," said Dad. "Can I help you?" "I want to plant a garden," said Mrs. Fine. "I want to cut down that old tree. It is half on my land and half on yours. Do you mind if I cut it down?" "Oh, no," said Rosa. "Please don't cut down that tree." "But the shade from that tree will stop my garden from growing," Mrs. Fine said. The doorbell rang. Rosa put down her new camera. She went to the door. She saw Mrs. Fine, her neighbor. "Hi, Rosa," Mrs. Fine said. "Is your Dad home?" "I'm right here," said Dad. "Can I help you?" "I want to plant a garden," said Mrs. Fine. "I want to cut down that old tree. It is half on my land and half on yours. Do you mind if I cut it down?" "Oh, no," said Rosa. "Please don't cut down that tree." "But the shade from that tree will stop my garden from growing," Mrs. Fine said. Dad looked at Rosa. She looked so sad.  "I don't know, Mrs. Fine," Dad said. "I want to think about it. I'll call you later." "Why are you sad, Rosa?" asked Dad. "That tree is important," said Rosa. "It has a bird's nest with baby birds. I watch them from my window."  "Is that all?" Dad asked. "No, Dad. A squirrel lives in the tree, too. A chipmunk lives by the big root. What will happen if Mrs. Fine cuts down their home?" "Why don't you tell Mrs. Fine about the animals. Maybe she will plant her garden someplace else," Dad said. "Hello, Rosa", said Mrs. Fine. "Hello. I want to talk about the tree," said Rosa.  "Baby birds live in the tree. A squirrel lives there, and so does a chipmunk. If you cut the tree down, they won't have a home." "I've never seen the birds' nest. I don't think squirrels or chipmunks live in that tree," said Mrs. Fine. "You must prove that they live there."  "If I show you, will you plant your garden someplace else?" asked Rosa. "It's a deal," said Mrs. Fine. Rosa went home. She got her camera. She also got some bread. "The bread will make the animals come out," she said. "Then I can take pictures of them." Rosa put bits of bread around the tree. Then she moved back from the tree. The mother bird came first. She took some bread and flew back to her nest. "Click," went Rosa's camera. The little chipmunk ran around the tree. When he felt safe, he took some bread. He carried it to his hole in the tree. "Click!" Rosa took a picture of him going into his hole. Rosa waited for the squirrel. She didn't wait long. The squirrel came out of the hole in the tree. "Click!" Now Rosa had pictures of all her animal friends. Two days later, the pictures were ready. "You took nice pictures," Dad said. "Show them to Mrs. Fine right away." "I will," said Rosa. She walked across the grass to Mrs. Fine's house. Rosa showed Mrs. Fine the pictures. Mrs. Fine was surprised. "You did a good job, Rosa," said Mrs. Fine. "Now I will not cut down that tree. It's too important. The animals all have homes there." "Oh, thank you," Rosa said. Mrs. Fine smiled. "Let's go see your animal friends." "Yes!" cried Rosa. "And then we can find a place for your garden." 
The Adventures of The Little Field Mouse modified by Taylor Struemph illustrated by Aurora Sidney-Ando Once upon a time, there was a little brown field Mouse. One day he was out in the grass to see what he could see. He ran around in the grass, poked his nose into everything and looked all around. He saw a shiny acorn in the grass. It was such a nice acorn. "I will take it home," he said. So he put out his paw to touch it, but the little acorn rolled away from him. He ran after it, but it kept rolling. It came to a big oak tree with roots all over the ground. Then it rolled under a big round root. Little Mr. Field Mouse ran to the root and poked his nose at the acorn. He saw a small hole in the ground. He went in and saw some stairs going down into the earth. The acorn was rolling down, so he went down too. Down, down, down, rolled the acorn, and down, down, down, went the Field Mouse. He saw a tiny door at the foot of the stairs. The shiny acorn rolled to the door and hit it with a tap. The little door opened and the acorn rolled inside. The Field Mouse went fast down the stairs and in the door. It shut and he was in a little room. In it there was a funny little Red Man! He had a little red cap, and a little red coat, and little red shoes with points at the toes. "You are in my jail," he said to the Field Mouse. "Why?" said the Field Mouse. "Because you tried to take my acorn," said the little Red Man. "It is my acorn, I found it," said the Field Mouse. "No, it is not," said the little Red Man. "I have it. You will never see it again." The little Field Mouse looked at the room, but he didn't see any acorn. He wanted to go back up the tiny stairs to his own home. But the little door was locked, and the little Red Man had the key. And he said to the mouse, "You will be mine. You will make my bed and clean my room and cook my food." So the little brown Mouse made the little Red Man's bed and cleaned the little Red Man's room and cooked the little Red Man's food. And every day the little Red Man went away out the tiny door, and did not come back until afternoon. But he always locked the door after him, and took the key.  At last, one day he was in such a hurry that he turned the key before the door was shut. The door did not lock at all. He went away in a rush. The little Field Mouse knew that he could run away home. But he did not want to go without the pretty acorn. He did not know where it was. He looked everywhere. He looked in every little drawer, but it was not there. He looked in every closet, but could not find it. Then he got up on a chair and opened a teeny, tiny door in the wall. There it was! He took it in his paws. Then he took it in his mouth. Then he ran away. He pushed open the little door. He climbed up, up, up the little stairs. He came out the hole under the root. He ran and ran in the fields. At last he came to his own house. When he was in his own house he set the shiny acorn on the table. He set it down too hard. With a little snap, it opened, like a little box. Inside it was a tiny necklace! It was a very pretty necklace. It was made of jewels and just the right size for a girl mouse. So the little Field Mouse gave the tiny necklace to his little Mouse-sister. She thought it was pretty. When she did not wear it, she kept it in the shiny acorn box. And the little Red Man never knew where his necklace went, because he did not know where the little Field Mouse lived!
JUSTIN AND HIS HAT ONE DAY JUSTIN AND HIS MOTHER WENT SHOPPING FOR HATS AND FOUND A PERFECT ONE BUT JUSTIN WOULD NEVER WEAR THE HAT AND THAT MADE HIS MOM ROLL HER EYES IT WASN'T THAT HE DIDN'T LIKE THE HAT IN FACT HE LOVED IT HE THOUGHT IT WAS GREAT IT TOTALLY FIT HIS HEAD AND HE LOVED IT THE WAY IT WAS A LIGHT  TIGHT A- AT FIRST BUT THEN STRETCHED TO THE PERFECT SIZE HE LOVED THE COLOR THE SIZE AND THE SHAPE NO THE SIZE THE SHAPE AND THE NEW HAT SMELL HE EVEN LIKED THE WAY HIS HAIR LOOKED WHEN HE TOOK THAT THE HAT OFF  UNFORTUNATELY JUSTIN WAS TOO SMART FOR HIS OWN GOOD HE FIGURED OUT THAT THE HAT WOULD GET  UM DIRTY OR LOST IF HE WORE IT TOO MUCH SO HE MADE A PROMISE TO HIMSELF THAT HE WOULD NEVER WEAR IT IN IT EXCEPT ON SPECIAL DAYS HE WANTED THAT THE HAT TO BE  CLEAN AND PERFECT FOREVER IF IT GETS DIRTY I- I'LL WASH IT S-  UM WASH IT SILLY SAID HIS MOTHER BUT IT'LL IT'LL SHRINK IF YOU WASH IT THEN IT WILL BE TOO SMALL HE SAID  HIS FATHER SAID YOU SHOULD REALLY WEAR THE HAT IF YOU LIKE IT OR ELSE YOU'LL BE SORRY BUT JUSTIN DIDN'T LISTEN TO AND EVERYDAY THE HAT SAT IN A CLEAN CLEAR PLASTIC BOX SO THAT IT WOULDN'T GET DIRTY SOMETIMES JUSTIN WOULD IMAGINE HIMSELF WALKING AROUND SCHOOL WITH THE HAT AND ON HIS HEAD ONCE HE EVEN IMAGINED HIMSELF AS A GROWN-UP WEARING THE HAT AND SPEAKING IN FRONT OF MANY PEOPLE HE IMAGINED THE PEOPLE WHISPER- UM WHISPERING TO THEIRSELVES WHAT A FINE SPEAKER HE IS SUCH A HANDSOME HAT HE HAS A SUCH- SUCH A HANDSOME HAT TOO ON HIS NEXT BIRTHDAY HE DECIDED TO WEAR THE HAT THERE WERE MANY PRESENTS BUT THE ONLY THING THAT MADE JUSTIN EXCITED WAS GETTING TO WEAR HIS HAT HE WENT TO HIS ROOM H- ROOM OPENED THE PLASTIC BOX AND TOOK THE HAT OUT VERY CAREFULLY THEN HE SLOWLY SLID IT ON IT WAS A LITTLE TIGHT AT FIRST LIKE IT WAS SUPPOSED T- TO BE IT WAS JUST LIKE HE REMEMBERED HE WAS SO HAPPY THAT HE COULDN'T HELP BUT SMILE I KNOW IT'S IT'S JUST A HAT HE THROUGH HIMS- HE THOUGHT TO HIMSELF BUT I SURE DO LOVE IT BUT THEN HE NOTICED THAT IT WASN'T STRETCHING SOMETHING WAS WRONG WITH  SOMETHING WAS WRONG IT WAS A LITTLE TIGHT JUSTIN COULD TELL IT JUST WASN'T PERFECT ANYMORE HE KNEW CRYING WOULDN'T HELP MAKE THE HAT PERFECT AGAIN BUT HE CRIED ANYWAY HE TOLD HIS PARENTS I DON'T WANT ANY OF THESE GIFTS I WANT TO RETURN THEM ALL AND TRY TO FIND A NEW PERFECT HAT INSTEAD HIS PARENTS LOOKED AT EACH OTHER AND KNEW THAT JUSTIN HAD LEARNED A GOOD LESSON SOON IF WE WOULD BE HAPPY TO BUY YOU A NEW HAT BUT ONLY IF YOU PROMISE TO WEAR IT THE FATHER SAID JUSTIN REPLIED I PROMISE THAT IF WE FIND THE PERFECT HAT I WILL WEAR IT EVERYDAY SO THE NEXT DAY JUSTIN AND HIS MOTHER WENT SHOPPING FOR HATS AND FOUND THE PERFECT ONE FROM THEN ON JUSTIN WOULD NEVER TAKE OFF IT OFF TAKE IT OFF AND AND THEN IT THAT MADE HIS MOM ROLL HER EYES
RACER THE DOG WHEN HIS OWNERS GOT HIM AS A PUPPY HE ALL WANTED ALL HE WANTED TO DO WAS RUN AND RUN SO HIS OWNERS NAMED HIM RACER THEN WHEN HE GOT OLDER HE DEVELOPED PROBLEMS WITH HIS BACK LEGS EVERY TIME HE RAN HE WOULD LIMP BUT THAT DIDN'T STOP HIM FROM RUNNING BECAUSE LIKE MOST DOGS RACER LOVED TO RUN THERE WAS A DOG PARK NEAR WHERE HE LIVED HE ENJOYED PLAYING AT THE DOG PARK BECAUSE HE DIDN'T HAVE TO BE ON HIS LEASH WHEN HE WAS THERE SO HE COULD RUN AS MUCH AS HE LIKED  THERE WAS ONE DOG AT THE DOG PARK NAMED FRANG FANG HE WOULD ALWAYS COME UP TO RACER AND BITE HIS BACK LEGS AND RUN AWAY SAYING BARK BARK BARK BARK WHICH IN DOG TALK MEANS YOU ARE TOO SLOW TO CATCH ME WITH THAT LIMP LEG OF YOURS SO I'M GOING TO PICK ON YOU RACER WOULD ALWAYS CHASE FANG BUT HE WOULD NEVER CATCH HIM  ONE DAY RACER WENT TO THE VET RACER LIKED THE VET BECAUSE THE PEOPLE IN THE WHITE COATS GAVE HIM TREATS RACER DIDN'T KNOW IT BUT HE WAS AT THE VET  TO HAVE SURGERY TO FIX HIS LEGS WHEN HE WOKE UP FROM THE SURGERY HE DIDN'T H- EVEN REMEMBER WHERE HE WAS AND SOON HIS OWNERS CAME AND DROVE HIM HOME  ON THE DRIVE HOME RACER REALIZED THAT HIS LEGS ITCHED VERY BADLY HE THOUGHT OH BOY I'M GOING TO LICK MY LEG SO HARD THAT THE ITCHING IS GOING TO GO AWAY SO HE TURNED HIS HEAD AROUND TO LICK HIS LEG BUT THERE WAS A BIG WHITE THING IN ITS WAY IN HIS WAY  HE WAS WEARING A COLLAR THAT MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE TO LICK HIS LEGS A FEW DAYS LATER HE WENT WITH HIS OWNERS TO THE DOG PARK RACER HAD TO BE ON A LEASH SINCE HE STILL NEEDED TO HEAL FROM HIS SURGERY BUT IT WAS NICE TO SEE ALL HIS FRIENDS MEAN OLD FANG SAID BARK BARK BARK BARK WHICH MEANT WHY DO YOU HAVE TO WEAR THAT STUPID LOOKING COLLAR IT SURE DOES LOOK SILLY EVENTUALLY RACER DIDN'T HAVE TO WEAR THE COLLAR BUT BY THEN HIS LEGS DIDN'T ITCH SO HE DIDN'T WANT TO LICK THEM FOR SIX WEEKS RACER WOULD TAKE WALKS AND GO TO THE DOG PARK BUT STILL HE WOULD H- HAD TO BE ON HIS LEASH LEASH ONE DAY HE TOOK A WALK TO THE DOG PARK AND ALL HIS FRIENDS WERE THERE AS USUAL THEN HIS OWNERS REACHED AROUND HIS NECK AND TOOK OFF HIS LEASH TH- JUST THEN FRANK BIT HIM ON THE BACK L- LEG AND RAN AWAY RACER'S OWNERS SAID GO RUN SO RACER STARTED RUNNING AND CHASING FANG FANG WAS LAUGHING BECAUSE HE KNEW RACER COULD NEVER CATCH HIM BUT SUDDENLY HE NOTICED THAT RACER RACER WAS CATCHING UP WITH HIM RACER WAS RUNNING FASTER THAN HE COULD EVER REMEMBER AND BEFORE HE KNEW THAT HE HAD CAUGHT UP TO FRANK AND KNOCKED HIM DOWN BEFORE HE KNEW IT  RACER SAID BARK BARK WHICH IN DOG TALKS MEANS DON'T PICK ON ME ANY MORE FANG AND FROM THAT DAY ON FANG NEVER BIT RACER'S LEGS RACER WAS SO HAPPY THAT HE COULD RUN FAST THAT HE RAN AND RAN IN CIRCLES FINALLY HE RAN BACK TO HIS OWNERS AND GAVE THEM A BIG KISSES FOR FIXING HIS LEGS
 THE AIRPLANE RIDE THE FIRST TIME I EVER TOOK AN AIRPLANE BY MYSELF IT WAS FUN AND SCARY I DIDN'T KNOW ANYONE AT ALL ALL AND HAD TO GO ALL THE WAY FROM NEW YORK TO TEXAS WITHOUT MY PARENTS I WAS FLYING THERE TO SEE MY GRANDFATHER AND AND WE WERE GOING TO THE GO WE WERE GOING TO GO FISHING I ALWAYS THOUGHT FLYING WAS FUN YOU GO HIGHER AND THEN ANY MOUNTAIN HIGHER THAN ANY MOUNTAIN AND YOU GO FASTER THAN ANY CAR BUT TO TELL YOUR THE- BUT TO TELL YOU THE TRUTH WITHOUT MY PARENTS THERE I WAS PRETTY NERVOUS I GUESS IT WAS BECAUSE THE PLANE WAS S- SO LOUD AND I DIDN'T KNOW ANYONE I STARTED THINKING HE MIGHT CRASH I DIDN'T LIKE TO THINK ABOUT THAT BUT I COULDN'T HELP IT THAT'S WHEN I MISSED MY PARENTS THE MOST  BUT ONCE THE PLANE WAS IN THE CAR IN THE AIR I WAS PRETTY GOOD MY MOM GAVE ME A COLORING BOOK AND A COOL LOOKING DRAGONS TO KEEP ME BUSY A COL- I COLORED THE DRAGON PICTURES ALL GREEN SO IT DIDN'T TAKE VERY LONG I ONLY USED TO- ONLY USED THE GREEN CRAYON BECAUSE IT WAS THE TALLEST AND I WANTED IT TO CATCH UP TO THE RED BROWN BLUE YELLOW PURPLE AND BLACK ONES  ONE THING ABOUT BEING BY YOURSELF ON AN AIRPLANE IS THAT THE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS ARE VERY NICE TO YOU I HAD SEVEN COCA-COL- COLAS AND FOUR GINGER- GINGER ALES WHICH MADE ME HAVE TO GO TO THE BATHROOM EIGHT TIMES I WAS GLAD THAT THERE WASN'T ANYONE NEXT TO ME THE PERSON NEXT TO ME WOULD BE WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY ANNOYED  UHM-  IN- EVEN  EVENTUALLY THE FLIGHT- FLIGHT ATTENDANT SEEMED TO GET A LITTLE ANNOYED THAT I HAD TO GO TO THE BATHROOM SO MUCH BUT IT WAS HER FAULT SHE WAS THE ONE WHO KEPT TRYING TO GIVE ME PEANUTS  I TOLD HER THAT I WANTED A BANANA SPLIT INSTEAD BUT SHE SAID THEY  THEY DON'T HAVE ANY BANANA SPLITS ON THE PLANE BUT SOMETIMES PEOPLE LIKE TO EAT PEANUTS ON THEIR BANANA SPLITS I TOLD HER THAT IT WAS THE PEANUTS THAT WERE MAKING ME SO THIRSTY IN THE FIRST PLACE IN THE FIRST PLACE AND THAT  AND THAT IF SHE WOULD GET ME A BANANA SPLIT I WOULDN'T I WOULDN'T HAVE TO GO THE BATHROOM SO MUCH SHE TOLD ME TO BE QUIET AND WATCH THE MOVIE I TRIED TO WATCH THE MOVIE BUT I HAD ALREADY SEEN THAT ONE SO IT WAS BORING THE FLIGHT ATTENDANT GAVE ME A DECK OF CARDS BUT SHE WOULDN'T PLAY GO FISH WITH ME SHE SAID THAT SHE HAD TO HELP OTHER PASSENGERS I HAD A GAME-BOY IN MY BACKPACK BY MY BACKPACK WAS IN THE OVERHEAD THING THINGY I TRIED TO PUSH THE BUTTON THAT LIGHTS UP OVER MY HEAD SO THE FLIGHT ATTENDANT WOULD COME BUT GUESS WHAT I WAS SO SHORT TO REACH THE BUTTON SO I STARTED YELLING HEY PEANUT LADY HEY PEANUT LADY SHE DIDN'T LIKE BEING CALLED PEANUT LADY BUT SHE DIDN'T GIVE ME MY GAME-BOY SHE TOLD ME TO CALL HER JENNIFER INSTEAD I PLAYED ON MY GAME-BOY UNTIL I GOT MY NEW HIGH SCORE THEN JENNIFER CAME UP TO ME AND SAID SHE HAD A SURPRISE I THOUGHT GREAT I THOUGHT GREAT MORE PEANUTS BUT IT WASN'T PEANUTS IT WAS SOMETHING REALLY COOL SHE SAID THE CAPTAIN WAS INVITING ME TO SEE THE COCKPIT I THOUGHT AWESOME I ALSO BROUGHT MY DECK OF CARDS IN CASE THE PILOT WAS BORED AND WANTED TO PLAY GO FISH JENNIFER TOOK ME INTO THE COCKPIT AND THERE WERE A MILLION BUTTONS AND LEVERS AND KNOBS AND STUFF AT FIRST I THOUGHT WOW LOOK AT ALL THOSE BUTTONS THEN I THOUGHT THERE'S NO WAY THAT ANYONE CAN REMEMBER TO PUSH ALL THOSE BUTTONS AT THE RIGHT TIME WE ARE GOING TO CRASH  THE WAY I FIGURED IT MY GAME BOY MY GAME BOY ONLY WAS FIVE BUTTONS AND I  CAN'T GET PAST LEVEL THREE IMAGINE HOW HARD IT WOULD BE TO WORK ALL THOSE MILLIONS OF BUTTONS AND EAT PEANUTS THE PILOT TOLD ME THAT IT WASN'T REALLY THAT HARD ONCE YOU PRACTICED THEN HE TOLD ME THAT HE ONCE PLAYED THE GAME I HAD ON MY GAME-BOY AND HE COULDN'T EVEN PASS LEVEL ONE I SAID IF YOU CAN'T EVEN GET PAST LEVEL ONE AND YOU'RE A PILOT THEN I COULD BE A PILOT TOO S- PILOT TOO SINCE I'M MUCH BETTER AT PUSHING BUTTONS THAT YOU ARE PUSHING BUTTONS THAN YOU ARE HE LAUGHED EVEN THOUGH I WAS JOKING HE SAID HE THOUGHT I WOULD MAKE A GREAT PILOT SOMEDAY IF I WANTED TO BE IF I WANTED TO BE HE WAS READY REALLY NICE BUT HE WOULDN'T PLAY GO FISH WITH ME FINALLY HE LANDED  THAT'S ALWAYS SCARY IT SEEMED LIKE THE PLANE IN THE PLANE IS GOING  TOO FAST  TO EVER STOP BUT IT DOESN'T BUT IT DOES WHEN I GOT OFF THE AIRPLANE THERE WERE WAS GRANDPA WAITING FOR ME HE SAID HOW WAS YOUR FLIGHT I SAID SOMEDAY I'M GOING TO BE A PILOT AND I'LL ONLY SERVE BANANA-SPLITS ON MY PLANE GRANDPA LAUGHED AND TOLD AND TOOK ME STRAIGHT TO THE ICE-CREAM SHOP IT WAS WORTH THE WHOLE TRIP JUST TO EAT A BANANA SPLIT WITH GRANDPA 
 THE PANDA  WHY DID A PANDA WITH THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL NAME YIN YIN HAVE HER NAME CHANGED TO THE VERY UN BEAUTIFUL GIRL NAME COLUMBUS IT WAS FRED'S IDEA SO LET'S BEGIN WITH FRED FRED FED THE PANDA BEARS THE TIGERS AND THE TURTLES THE TURTLES WEREN'T SO BAD BUT AS FOR THE TIGERS HE WASN'T SO SURE HE DIDN'T MIND HANDLING THE RAW MEAT HE HAD TO FEED TH- TO THE TIGERS HIS MAIN OBJECTION WAS BE- TO BEING EATEN  NO ONE COULD BLAME FRED REALLY SINCE NO ONE REALLY WANTS TO BE EATEN SOME PEOPLE DO LIKE TO BITE THEIR FINGER NAILS BUT FRED WASN'T A NAIL BITER SO BEING EATEN WAS DEFINITELY NOT SOMETHING HE LOOKED FORWARD TO  FRED WAIT EACH AFTERNOON AT THREE O'CLOCK WHEN IT WAS TIME TO FEED THE TIGERS FOR FRED WHEN IT CAME TO THE PANDAS HE HAD A WARM SPOT IN HIS HEART ACTUALLY IT WAS EIGHTY FIVE POINT FIVE DEGREE SPOT ON HIS LEFT KIDNEY BUT THE POINT WAS THAT HE WAS VERY FOND OF FEEDING THE PANDAS THERE WERE THREE PANDAS AND THEY WERE KNOWN AS THE PAN FAMILY THERE WERE THEY WERE IN ORDER OF CUTENESS YIN YIN THE YOUNGER DAUGHTER POO POO THE MOTHER AND MOO MAN THE GENTLE AND ALWAYS SLEEPY FATHER  MANY PEOPLE KNOW THE- THAT PANDAS EAT BAMBOO A LOT OF IT AND A LOT OF BAMBOO CAN GET QUITE HEAVY SO BECAUSE OF THE PANDAS FRED BECAME VERY STRONG AND WAS IN TERRIFIC SHAPE BUT PHYSICAL FITNESS WAS NOT ONLY THE ONLY REASON THAT FRED LOVED THE PANDAS THE OTHER REASON WAS THAT ANYONE WHO GETS WITHIN THREE FEET OF A PANDA AUTOMATICALLY FALLS IN LOVE WITH THEM IT'S A LAW OF NATURE AS AT FUTHER DISTANCES PANDAS HAVE A STRANGE ALMOST MAGICAL EFFECT ON HUMAN BEINGS WHICH MAKES US WANT TO HUG AND SQUEEZE THINGS FRED WAS NOT ALLOWED TO ACTUALLY HUG THE PANDA BEARS SINCE THAT COULD BE DANGEROUS SO ALL THE OTHER PEOPLE IN THE ZOO WOULD KNOW THAT THE PANDAS HAD JUST BEEN FED WHEN THEY SAW FRED HUGGING THE RATHER UNCUDDLY PALM TREE OUTSIDE THE PANDAS HOME IT'S INTERESTING TO POINT OUT AT THIS TIME THAT MORE STUFFED PANDA BEARS ARE SOLD AT ZOO GIFT SHOPS THAN ALL OF THE OTHER STUFFED ANIMALS COMBINED THIS CAN ALMOST CERTAINLY BE ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE STRANGE ALMOST MAGICAL EFFECT THAT THE PANDAS POSSESS BUT EVERYTHING WAS NOT ALL BAMBOO AND HUGS AT THE ZOO ONE MORNING FRED WAS FEEDING YIN YIN AND SAID OH YIN YIN I WISH THAT MORE PEOPLE WOULD COME AND VISIT THE ZOO I KNOW I SHOULDN'T BE TELLING YOU THIS BUT WE MIGHT HAVE TO SELL YOU AND YOUR FAMILY TO THE BIG ZOO IN SAN- SAN ANGELES IF WE DON'T GET MORE MONEY IT'S NOT THAT YOU AREN'T SELLING ENOUGH STUFFED PANDA BEARS IT'S JUST THAT YOU HAVEN'T BEEN THERE HAVEN'T BEEN ENOUGH PEOPLE COMING TO SEE YOU IN THE FIRST PLACE I THINK THAT THE ZOO NEEDS A GREAT ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN  FRED WAS STARTING TO FEEL THE UNCONTROLLABLE URGE TO HUG THE PANDA SO BEFORE HE RAN OFF TO HUG THE PALM TREE HE QUICKLY SAID IT COSTS SO MUCH TO FEED YOU PANDA BEARS I WOULD HA- I W- I WOULD HATE IF YOU HAD TO LEAVE US  AFTER ALL IT'S ONLY HOME YOU KNOW IT'S THE ONLY HOME YOU KNOW BESIDES IF YOU LEAVE I'LL GET TERRIBLY OUT OF SHAPE NOW IF YOU EXCUSE ME I NEED TO SQUEEZE SOMETHING BEFORE I SCREAM BUT YIN YIN THE YOUNG PANDA WAS NOT LISTENING TO FRED SHE WAS TALKING TO HER BEST FRIEND MAGGIE THE MAGPIE ABOUT GOING TO THE MOON YES THE BIG ONE IN THE SKY THAT IS MOST LIKELY NOT MADE OF CHEESE AND MOST CERTAINLY NOT MADE OF BAMBOO YIN YIN AND HER BEST FRIEND MAGGIE THE MAGPIE WHO LOOKED A LOT LIKE A PANDA WOULD LOOK WOULD LOOK IF PANDAS WERE BIRDS WERE DISCUSSING ABOUT GOING TO THE MOON HER MOTHER AND FATHER KNEW WHAT THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT SINCE THEY HADN'T THOUGHT OR TALKED OF MUCH ELSE SINCE YIN YIN SAID I WANT TO GO THERE AND POINTED TO THE MOON ENOUGH OF THIS NONSENSE SAID YIN YIN'S MOTHER POO POO WHAT SORT OF NONSENSE IS THIS FOR A YOUNG PANDA BEAR GOING TO THE MOON INDEED MOON INDEED NONSENSE  YOUR JOB IS TO BE CUTE SO PEOPLE WANT TO RUN TO THE GIFT SHOP AND BUY PANDA BEAR DOLLS IT'S SIMPLE ECON- ECONOMICS  LIKE IT OR NOT WE ARE SPOKESPEOPLE FOR THE PANDA STUFFED ANIMAL INDUSTRY WHICH YOUNG LADY HELPS PAY FOR THE BAMBOO THAT YOU EAT SUCH NONSENSE GOING TO THE MOON SAID HER MOTHER POO POO BUT I JUST LEARNED HOW TO MAKE MYSELF INTO A BALL AND ROLL TWO DAYS AGO AND I'VE BECOME VERY AND I'M BECOMING VERY GOOD AT IT I DON'T THINK IT WILL TAKE THAT LONG TO ROLL THERE SAID YIN YIN YIN YIN'S FATHER MOO MAN DIDN'T THINK IT WAS VERY PROPER OR WISE FOR A YOUNG PANDA BEAR TO GO ROLLING OFF TO PLACES WHERE THERE WASN'T ANY BAMBOO BUT HE WAS SUPPORTIVE OF HIS YOUNG DAUGHTER AND SHOWED SUPPORT BY TAKING A NAP BUT BEFORE HE FELL ASLEEP HE DID MANAGE TO SAY I BELIEVE ROLLING IS DECIDEDLY ROUND ABOUT WAY TO GO IF YOU MUST GO T'WOULD BE NICE TO BE IT T'WOULD BE BEST TO FLY NONSENSE SAID THE MOTHER I'M SO MAD I'M GOING TO LOOK AT THE LADY OVER THERE AND MAKE HER WANT TO SQUEEZE HER SON CHEEKS SHE SAID SPITEFULLY AN INSTANT LATER A YOUNG BOY HEARD WAS HEARD SAYING OUCH MOM CUT THAT OUT I'M SORRY TO SAY BUT MANY A BOY LITTLE BOY'S CHEEKS HAVE BEEN MADE RAW WHEN MOTHER POO POO PANDA WAS UPSET YIN YIN HAS- WAS ALWAYS ONE TO TAKE GOOD ADVICE FROM HER FATHER  AND LESS THAN A WEEK LATER YIN YIN AND MAGGIE HAD BUILT A ROCKET SHIP OUT OF BAMBOO BAMBOO IS VERY WORKABLE SUBSTANCE AND PANDAS TEND TO HANDLE BAMBOO A LOT SO THIS IN ITSELF WAS NOT THAT ASTONISHING AT LEAST TO YIN YINS PARENTS FRED SURE WAS IMPRESSED THOUGH THE MAIN OBSTACLE IT TURNS OUT WAS GETTING THE ROCKET SHIP OFF THE GROUND MAGGIE FIGURED IF SHE AND THE THREE OF HER STRONGEST MAGPIE FRIENDS WERE TO EACH GRAB HOLD OF A CORNER OF THE ROCKET SHIP THEY COULD ALL FLY TO THE MOON SO THEY TRIED ONE TWO THREE TO THE MOON THEY SAID TOGETHER PULLING WITH ALL THEIR MIGHT I SEE YOUR WINGS FLAPPING BUT WE DON'T SEEM TO BE GOING ANYWHERE SAID YIN YIN HMM HEAVIER THAN I THOUGHT I THINK WE'LL NEED MORE MAGPIES SAID MAGGIE YES BUT HOW MANY MORE YIN YIN SAID  I'M NOT SURE EXACTLY REPLIED MAGGIE THE FATHER WATCHING THIS ALL THROUGH ONE EYE FOR HE ALWAYS HAD AT LEAST ONE EYE UHM ONE EYE ASLEEP AT ALL TIMES SAID T'WOULD BE BEST TO ASK THE OWL THEN CLOSED HIS EYE SO MAGGIE FLEW TO THE OWL ASKED FOR HIS ADVICE OH WISE OWL I HAVE A QUESTION THAT I FEAR ONLY YOU CAN ANSWER SHE SAID HOW TO TURN YOUR HOW TO TURN YOUR HEAD ALL THE WAY AROUND WITH GETTING A TERR- WITHOUT GETTING A TERRIBLE PAIN IN YOUR NECK SAID OWL NO HOW MANY MAGPIE'S WOULD BE NEEDED TO FLY A FOUR HUNDRED POUND PANDA BEAR TO AND A ONE HUNDRED POUND BAMBOO ROCKET SHIP TO THE MOON SAID MAGGIE THE OWL INSTANTLY REPLIED TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND AND SEVENTY SIX GIVE OR TAKE TWO A WEEK LATER MAGGIE MANAGED TO ROUND UP TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND SEVENTY EIGHT MAGPIE SHE COULD BE VERY PERSUASIVE LITTLE BIRD IF SHE WANTED  A WEEK LATER DESPITE MUCH FLAPPING THEY WERE STILL TRYING TO GET THE ROCKET IN THE AIR IT TURNS OUT THAT THE OWL DIDN'T TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION THAT ONCE YOU GET OVER A THOUSAND MAGPIE TOGETHER THEY TEND TO FIGHT AND CAN'T AGREE ON A SINGLE THING NOW WHILE ALL THIS WAS GOING ON WHAT DO YOU SUPPOSE FRED WAS DOING WHY HE WAS FEEDING THE PANDAS LIKE HE WAS SUPPOSED TO SO ONE DAY AFTER FRED HAD FED THE PANDAS AND WAS HUGGING THE PALM TREE THE ZOO MANAGER CAME UP TO HIM AND SAID WHAT IS GOING ON WITH YOUR PANDA FRED I'VE NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT IT'S TAKEN ME A COUPLE OF WEEKS TO FIGURE IT OUT BUT I THINK YIN YIN WANTS TO GO TO THE MOON AND THE MAGPIES WANT TO TAKE HER THERE SAID FRED OH WELL THAT MAKES SENSE THEN SAID THE MANAGER DID YOU KNOW THAT SINCE THE LITTLE PANDA BUILT THAT BAMBOO ROCKET SHIP THOSE MAGPIE'S STARTED FLUTTERING ABOUT AND THE ZOO'S PROFITS HAVE GONE UP FOUR THOUSAND PERCENT THIS IS JUST THE TYPE OF EXPOSURE WE NEEDED THOSE PANDAS WILL BE WITH US FOR A LONG TIME  FRED THOUGHT ABOUT IT AND SAID YOU KNOW I THINK WE SHOULD RENAME YIN YIN COLUMBUS THE ZOO KEEPER SAID GOOD HEAVENS TH- THAT IS A GREAT IDEA NO WAIT A SECOND I DON'T UNDERSTAND WELL SIR WHEN COLUMBUS SET OUT ON HIS SHIP HE WAS REALLY TRYING TO FIND A QUICKER WAY TO GET AROUND EUROPE IN ORDER TO IMPROVE TRADE HE WANTED TO BE A BUSINESS MAN BUT INSTEAD BECAME A GREAT EXPLORER YES BUT WHAT DOES THAT HAVE TO DO WITH THE PANDAS MAN SAID THE ZOO KEEP- MANAGER WELL IT SEEMS TO ME SIR THAT YIN YIN WANTED TO BE A GREAT EXPLORER INSTEAD OF A BUSINESS WOMAN I SEE FRED ONE MORE THING SIR ABOUT THOSE MAGPIES FLYING ABOVE THE PANDAS DO YOU THINK THAT THE ZOO COULD PURCHASE ME A LARGE SIZED UMBRELLA THE ZOO MANAGER LAUGHED AND WALKED AWAY BUT DID PURCH- BUT DID PURCHASE A FASHIONABLE YELLOW UMBRELLA FOR FRED THE NEXT DAY BACK AT THE PANDA'S HOME THE MOTHER PANDA POO POO WAS VERY PROUD OF HER DAUGHTER AFTER ALL IF IT WEREN'T FOR YIN YIN THEY WOULD HAVE HAD TO MOVE FROM THEIR WONDERFUL HOME BUT LATER WHEN FRED WALKED INTO THE PANDA'S HOME UNDER A HIS NEW YELLOW UMBRELLA ALL SHE COULD THINK WAS- TO SAY WAS NONSENSE AS FOR YIN YIN SHE WAS VERY PROUD TO BE RENAMED AFTER A FAMOUS EXPLORER AND SHE AND MAGGIE NEVER STOPPED TRYING TO GET TO THE MOON 
 THE SLOWEST TURTLE EVERY FOUR YEARS TURTLES  FROM ALL OVER THE LAND WOULD CRAWL TO GREAT POND IT WOULD TAKE SOME TURTLES FROM FAR AWAY VILLAGES TWO WHOLE WEEKS JUST TO GET THERE  WHEN ALL THE  TURTLES ARRIVED THERE WAS A SEVEN DAY FESTIVAL CALLED THE SHELL DWELLERS FESTIVAL WHERE THERE WAS LOTS OF EATING AND LAUGHING TURTLES COULD CATCH UP WITH FRIENDS THEY HAD NOT SEEN SINCE LAST FESTIVAL EVERYTHING ABOUT THE FESTIVAL WAS FUN BUT THE MAIN EVENT WAS THE GREAT TURTLE RACE THE WINNER OF THE GREAT TURTLE RACE WAS SO IMPORTANT THAT HE OR SHE DIDN'T HAVE TO MOVE FOR FOUR YEARS UNTIL THE NEXT FESTIVAL THE LESS A TURTLE MOVES THE BIGGER THEY GET AND THE LONGER THEY LIVE SO YOU CAN SEE WINNING THE GREAT THE GREAT RACE IS A GREAT HONOR THE TURTLE CUP WAS THE TROPHY THAT THE WINNER WOULD TAKE HOME TO THE VILLAGE IT WO- IT HAD BEEN IN  SLUDGE POND FOR OVER FIFTY YEARS BECAUSE NO ONE COULD EVER BEAT THEIR TURTLE THIS WAS THE MOST FAMOUS TURTLE THERE WAS HE WAS THE SLOWEST TURTLE OF ALL TIME  HE HADN'T  HE HADN'T HAD TO MOVE FOR OVER FIFTY YEARS HE WAS THE BIGGEST MOST RESPECTED AND ALSO ONE OF THE TRICKIEST TURTLES THERE WAS THERE WERE MANY LEGENDS ABOUT HIM IT WAS THE IT WAS RUMORED HE WAS SO SLOW HIS HEART WOULD ONLY BEAT ONCE A DAY HIS NAME WAS MUD AND HE WAS THE GREATEST CHAMPION IN THE HISTORY OF SHELL DWELLER'S FESTIVAL HE WAS UNBEATABLE WHEN MUD WAS IN HIS PRIME THERE WAS A NEW TURTLE BORN IN BLUE POND THIS TURTLE WAS NAMED SWISH WHEN SWISH WAS BORN EVERYONE THOUGHT HE WAS A LITTLE SLOW BUT HE GOT A LI- A LITTLE OLDER AND TUR- THE TURTLES BEGAN TO REALIZE THAT SWISH WAS REALLY REALLY REALLY SLOW ONCE HIS MOTHER CALLED HIM IN FOR DINNER AND HE DIDN'T MAKE IT HOME UNTIL BREAKFAST THE NEXT MORNING AND HE WAS ONLY A FOOT AWAY  BLUE POND WAS A NICE VILLAGE LOCATED ABOUT THREE DAYS CRAWL FROM GREAT POND THEY ALL FELT A LITTLE SAD BECAUSE THEY HADN'T HELD THE TURTLE CUP IN OVER SEVEN HUNDRED YEARS SO WITH SWISH THEY THOUGHT MAYBE JUST MAYBE HE COULD BRING BACK THE TURTLE CUP TO THEIR LITTLE POND EVERYONE TREATED SWISH DIFFERENTLY FOR EXAMPLE MISTER PEEKS THE LOCAL SHELL CLEANER WOULD SAY HEY THERE SWISH YOU WANT A FREE SHELL WAXING TODAY WE ALL WANT YOU TO LOOK GOOD WHEN YOU BRING HOME THE CUP MS SNAPPER WOULD SAY HI SWISHY DO YOU WANT SOME YUMMY PIE TO FILL YOU UP AND SLOW YOU DOWN FOR THE BIG RACE A FAT TURTLE IN THE SLOW TURTLE A FAT TURTLE IS A SLOW TURTLE MS SNAPPER WAS NEVER NICE TO ANYONE BUT SHE WAS NICE TO S- SWISH MISTER PEEKS WOULD NEVER DO ANYTHING FOR FREE BUT HE WAS GOING TO GIVE SWISH A FREE SHELL WAXING THIS WAS THE KIND OF THING THAT SWISH WOULD GET ALL THE TIME ALL THE EXTRA ATTENTION MADE SWISH VERY UNCOMFORTABLE HE THOUGHT SURE THEY'RE NICE TO ME NOW BECAUSE THEY THINK I CAN WIN THE RACE BUT IF I LOSE THEY'LL BE DISAPPOINTED AND MAD AT ME I NEVER PROMISED THAT I WOULD WIN THE RACE I CAN'T BEAT MUD ANYWAY I HEARD ONCE IT TOOK HIM THREE DAYS JUST TO YAWN SO ONE DAY HE TOLD HIS PARENTS I DON'T WANT TO RACE ALL THE TURTLES IN BLUE POND HELD A MEETING TO DISCUSS THE PROBLEM THE MAYOR DOCTOR SOFTSHELL SAID THIS IS RIDICULOUS SWISH HAS TO RACE HE'S THE SLOWEST TURTLE I'VE EVERY S- EVERY SEEN  EXCEPT FOR MUD OF COURSE WITHOUT HIM WE DON'T HAVE A CHANCE BUT HE DOESN'T WANT TO BE TREATED SPECIAL HE JUST WANTS TO BE NORMAL AND DOESN'T WANT EVERYBODY TO HATE HIM IF HE CAN'T BEAT MUD YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT EVEN THOUGH HE'S GIFTED AT BEING SLOW HE'S VERY VERY YOUNG SAID SWISH'S FATHER WE NEVER THOUGHT OF THAT THEY ALL SAID THE TOWN AGREED TO TREAT SWISH LIKE A NORMAL PERSON AND AFTER A WHILE SWISH DECIDED THAT HE WOULD BE PROUD TO- TO RACE FOR HIS VILLAGE WHEN THE TIME OF THE FESTIVAL DREW NEAR ALL THE TURTLES IN THE LAND STARTED TOWARD GREAT POND SWISH HAD TO BE CARRIED ON HIS FATHER'S BACK SINCE IT WOULD HAVE TAKEN HIM MONTHS TO GET TO THE GREAT POND BY HIMSELF FINALLY AFTER THE LONG JOURNEY ALL THE TURTLES ARRIVED AT GREAT F- POND THIS WAS SWISH'S FIRST EVER SHELL DWELLERS FESTIVAL AND HE THOUGHT IT WAS THE MOST WONDERFUL THING HE HAD EVER SEEN THERE WERE THOUSANDS OF TURTLES ALL OF DIFFERENT SPECIES ALL HAVING A GREAT TIME LOOK THERE'S YOUR COUSIN PEEK A BOO FROM BIG PUDDLE VILLAGE SAID SWISH'S MOTHER YOU'LL GET UHM GET TO MEET ALL SORTS OF NEW TURTLES SWISH WAS SUDDENLY VERY EXCITED HE TOLD HIS MOM YOU KNOW WHAT I'M GOING TO WIN THIS RACE  I KNOW IT AND ALL THESE TURTLES WILL KNOW THAT BLUE POND RULES I'M NOT AFRAID OF STUPID MUD SWISH'S MOM SMILED AND SAID I KNOW THAT YOU CAN WIN SWISH BUT IT'S AN HONOR JUST TO GET TO THE RACE SAID SWISH'S MOM  SWISH SAW A ROCK IN THE MIDDLE OF THE FIELD AND WONDERED HOW COME THEY DIDN'T MOVE THAT BIG ROCK OUT OF THE FIELD IT SEEMS TO BE IN EVERYONE'S WAY  SAID SWISH THAT'S NOT A ROCK SWEETIE SAID HIS MOM THAT'S MUD SWISH MADE A LOUD GULPING SOUND JUST DO YOUR BEST SAID HIS MOM SWISHES FATHER SAID SON I HAVE SOMETHING TO TELL YOU AS YOU KNOW YOUR GREAT GREAT GRAND TURTLE RACED MUD ONCE HE WASN'T AS SLOW AS YOU BUT HE DID TEACH ABOUT MUD'S  DIRTY TRICKS THEN HE WHISPERED IN SWISH'S EAR ALL THE TRICKS THAT HIS GREAT GREAT GRAND TURTLE TAUGHT HIM AFTER SEVEN DAYS OF PLAYING AND DANCING AND BUG EATING FINALLY THE DAY OF THE RACE CAME THE MAYOR OF GREAT POND  MS TORT P-  POSTED THE T- RULES OF THE RACE ON THE TREE FOR EVERYONE TO SEE THEY READ RULE NUMBER ONE THE GREAT RACE BEGINS AT SUNRISE AND ENDS AT SUNSET RULE NUMBER TWO TURTLES- ALL TURTLES MUST RUN AS FAST AS THEY CAN AND THE TURTLE THAT IS CLOSEST TO THE STARTING LINE WINS RULE NUMBER THREE NO TURTLE MAY PRETEND TO BE GOING FAST BUT GOING- GO SLOW INSTEAD ALL TURTLE MUST GO AS FAST AS THEY CAN AT ALL TIMES SINCE TURTLE NEVER CHEAT THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT RULE TO BREAK THIS RULE WOULD MEAN AN END TO THE GREAT TURTLE RACE FOREVER RULE NUMBER FOUR NO TURTLE MAY FALL ASLEEP SINCE IF YOU ARE ASLEEP YOU AREN'T RUNNING AS FAST AS YOU CAN  SWISH READ THE RULES EVEN THOUGH HE KNEW THEM BY HEART THEN HE HEARD THE MAYOR SAID RUNNER'S PLEASE TAKE YOUR POSITIONS THE SLOWEST TURTLES FROM EACH POND WERE CARRIED TO THE STARTING LINE BY MEMBERS OF THEIR VILLAGE THERE WERE ABOUT THREE HUNDRED TURTLES RACING THERE WERE ALL THE SLOWEST OF THE SLOW THE TURTLES ALL STRETCHED  AND THOUGHT REALLY SLOW THOUGHTS AS THEY DID THE SKY TURNED BA- TURNED FROM BLACK TO DARK BLUE THEY LOOKED AT THE HORIZON AND SAW THE SUN WAS STARTING THE RISE JUST THEN THE MAYOR SAID READY SET SLOW AND OFF THEY WENT ALL THE TURTLES WERE VERY VERY SLOW SO IT TOOK T- TOOK SOME TIME BEFORE ANYONE FIGURED OUT WHICH TURTLES WAS THE SLOWEST AFTER A FEW HOURS MOST OF THE TURTLES HAD GONE A FEW FEET ALL EXCEPT TWO SWISH AND MUD WERE BOTH BACK AT THE STARTING LINE IT LOOKED AS IF NEITHER OF THEM HAD MOVED AT ALL THEY WERE BOTH MOVING OF COURSE BUT THEY WERE SO SLOW THAT IT WAS HARD TO TELL AFTER SIX HOURS MUD AND S- SWISH WERE STILL TIED AND HAD ONLY MOVED A FEW INCHES BY NOW ALL THE TURTLES WERE JUST WERE USUALLY WAY AHEAD OF MUD BUT THIS TIME SWISH HAD WAS JUST AS SLOW MUD KNEW THAT THIS WOULD BE HIS CLOSEST RACE EVER AND HE WAS ACTUALLY GETTING A LITTLE BIT SCARED WHO IS THIS YOUNG PUNK HE THOUGHT TO HIMSELF  MUD SAID TO SWISH THERE'S NO WAY THAT A TURTLE AS YOUNG AS YOU CAN BE SO SLOW EVEN I WAS FASTER THAN YOUR THAN YOU WHEN YOU I WAS YOUR AGE YOU'RE CHEATING YOU'RE GOING TO RUIN THE GREAT RACE FOREVER BUT SWISH WOULDN'T LET MUD SCARE HIM YOU'RE JUST TRYING TO MAKE ME QUIT I'M NOT GOING TO FALL TO YOUR TRICKS  HE SAID TURTLES NEVER CHEAT AND I'M A TURTLE WITH HONOR THEN MUD TRIED ANOTHER TRICK HE STARTED SINGING A SOFT BEAUTIFUL LULLABY SWISH STARTED YAWNING HE WAS TIRED FROM RACING AND THOUGHT THAT IF  IT WOULD BE THAT IT WOULD BE NICE TO JUST LISTEN TO MUD'S SWEET VOICE AND FALL ASLEEP THEN HE SNAPPED OUT OF IT AND REMEMBERED HIS FATHER HAD WARNED HIM OF HIS OF THIS TRICK HE REACHED IN HIS SHELL AND AND PULLED OUT A COUPLE OF EARPLUGS THEN PUT THE EARPLUGS IN HIS EARS AND COULDN'T HEAR MUD'S SINGING ANYMORE MUD KEPT SINGING HIS LULLABY FOR A FEW HOURS BUT HE STOPPED RIGHT BEFORE SUNSET THE CROWD THOUGHT HE MUST HAVE REALIZED THAT HIS SINGING TRICK WASN'T WORKING BUT THEN  BUT THEN RIGHT AT THE END RIGHT BEFORE THE SUNSET SWISH STARTED TO PULL AHEAD OF MUD OH NO SHOUTED THE FANS MUD'S WINNING IT LOOKED LIKE MUD IS STILL THE GREATEST TURTLE OF THEM ALL AND WHEN THE SUN WENT DOWN MUD WAS THE CLOSEST TURTLE TO THE STARTING LINE SWISH WAS SAD THAT HE LOST BUT ALL THE TURTLES FROM BLUE POND W- CHEERED FOR SWISH THEY WERE VERY PROUD  HE GAVE MUD SUCH A CLOSE RACE SWISH WAS HAPPY TOO BUT DEEP DOWN I- INSIDE HE KNEW HE WAS JUST AS SLOW AS MUD THE MAYOR OF PONDLAND WENT TO PRESENT THE TURTLE CUP TO SLUDGE POND AGAIN SHE ANNOUNCED WELL MUD IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE YOU'VE DONE IT SLUDGE POND WINS THE TURTLE CUP AGAIN THIS TIME IT WAS A BIT CLOSER THAN YOU WOULD HAVE LIKED IT  I'LL BET WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SAY TO ALL THE TURTLES AT THE FESTIVAL THE CROWD STARTED YELLING SPEECH SPEECH MUD DIDN'T ANSWER THE MAYOR TAPPED MUD ON THE SHELL AND SAID HELLO HELLO MUD MUD STILL DIDN'T ANSWER IN FACT MUD WAS SOUND ASLEEP MUD HAD ACTUALLY SUNG HIMSELF TO SLEEP  LADIES AND GENTLEMEN SHE SAID MUD FROM SLUDGE POND HAS BEEN DISQUALIFIED FOR SLEEPING DURING THE RACE THIS MEANS THAT WE HAVE A NEW CHAMPION THE REAL WINNER IS SWISH SOFTBELLY OF BLUE POND THE CROWD WENT WILD MS TORT WENT UP TO SWISH AND GAVE HIM THE TURTLE CUP SHE SAID SWISH YOU WERE THE YOUNGEST WINNER OF THE GREAT TURTLE RACE THAT WAS THE MOST EXCITING FINISH WE'VE EVER HAD I THINK THAT YOU WILL BE A GREAT CHAMPION FOR MANY YEARS SINCE TURTLES ONLY GET SLOWER WITH AGE FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SIX HUNDRED YEARS I WOULD LIKE TO PRESENT THE TURTLE CUP TO BLUE POND THE CROWD WENT WILD AGAIN SWISH TOOK THE CUP THAT DAY FOR THE FIRST TIME HE WOULD TAKE IT MANY MORE TIMES AFTER THAT IT WAS BECAUSE OF SWISH THAT BLUE POND BECAME THE MOST RESPECTED POND IN THE LAND HE WOULD NEVER LOSE THE TURTLE CUP FOR THE REST OF HIS LONG LIFE BUT THOUGH HE BECAME THE GREATEST AND BIGGEST TURTLE OF ALL TIME MUCH GREATER OR BIGGER THAN MUD HE ALWAYS MADE SURE THAT NO ONE TREATED HIM SPECIAL AND THAT HE TREATED EVERYBODY LIKE HE WANTED TO BE TREATED LIKE A TURTLE WITH HONOR 
 THE BERENSTAIN BEARS AND THE BAD HABIT  SISTER BEAR WHO LIVED- WHO LIVED WITH HER MAMA AND PAPA AND HER BROTHER IN THE BIG TREE HOUSE DOWN A SUNNY DIRT ROAD DEEP IN BEAR COUNTRY HAD BEEN GOING TO SCHOOL FOR QUITE A WHILE FIRST THERE HAD BEEN A NURSERY SCHOOL WHERE- WHICH WAS PURE FUN PLAYING WITH DOLLS BLOCKS ROLLING CLAY SNAKES AND SCRIBBLING WITH CRAYONS NEXT CAME KINDERGARTEN  N- NEXT HAD COME KINDERGARTEN THAT WAS FUN TOO TH- THERE WERE MARCHING GAMES AND A RHYTHM BAND SHE ALSO LEARNED A LOT OF NUMBERS IN KINDERGARTEN AND MOST OF THE ALPHABET  NOW SISTER WAS IN FIRST GRADE REGULAR SCHOOL WAS DIFFERENT SH- IT WAS STILL FUN AND SHE LIKED TEACHER JANE VERY MUCH BUT IT WASN'T ALL F- IT WASN'T  BUT IT WASN'T ALL FUN THERE THERE WAS QUITE A LOT OF WORK SPELLING NUMBER PROBLEMS ALL KINDS OF THINGS IN REGULAR SCHOOL YOU HAVE TO CONCENTRATE SOME- SOME AND SOMETIMES WHEN YOU CONCENTRATE YOU FORM LITTLE NERVOUS HABITS AND THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED TO SOME CUBS IN TEACHER JANE'S CLASS LIZZY TWIRLED HER FUR TWIRL TWIRL TWIRL FREDDY SCRATCHED HIS HEAD SCRATCH SCRATCH SCRATCH NORMAN SUCKED HIS THUMB SUCK SUCK SUCK SIS- AND SISTER NIBBLED HER NAILS NIBBLE NIBBLE NIBBLE NIBBLE  BEFORE SHE KNEW IT IT- BEFORE SHE KNEW IT SHE HAD NIBBLED THEM DOWN TO NUBBINS IN FACT SHE NIBBLED THEM SO FAR THAT SOME OF HER FINGERS WERE GETTING SORE OH DEAR SAID MAMA MAMA BEAR TO SISTER WHEN THE CUBS GOT HOME FROM SCHOOL ONE DAY YOU'VE NIBBLED YOUR DA- YOU'VE NIBBLED YOUR NAILS DOWN TO NUBBINS IN FACT YOU'VE NIBBLED THEM CLEAN OFF HOW DID IT HAPPEN I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE MAMA SISTER SAID BUT SOME OF THEM ARE GETTING SORE HMM SAID MAMA WELL H- HERE'S WHAT WE'LL DO WE'LL PUT A LITTLE M- MEDI- MEDICINE ON THE SORES ONE- ON THE SORE ONES AND BITS OF AD- ADHESIVE TAPE ON ALL OF THEM THAT WILL REMIND YOU NOT NOT TO NIBBLE AND GET BACK AND WILL GIVE THEM A CHANCE TO GROW BACK THE THE BITS OF TAPE HELPED SISTER REMEMBER REMEMBER NOT TO NIBBLE BUT THEY A- BUT THEY ALSO GOT IN THE WAY WHEN SHE TRIED TO DO CERTAIN THINGS IT WAS VERY HARD TO HOLD A PENCIL WITH TAPE ALL OVER YOUR FINGERTIPS OR TURN ON THE TV OR SCRATCH WHEN YOU HAVE AN ITCH WHEN SIS- WHEN SIS- AND WHEN SISTER TRIED TO PLAY JACKS SHE COULDN'T GET ANY SHE COULDN'T HIGHER THAN  THAN TWOSIES THAN TWOSIES BUT WORST OF ALL BITS OF TAPE BUT WORST OF ALL THE BITS OF TAPE TOLD THE WHOLE WORLD SISTER BEAR WAS A NAIL BITER  THE NEXT MORNING WHEN SISTER LINED UP FOR SCHOOL LIZZY BRUIN AND SOME OTHER OTHERS BEGAN POINTING AT HER AND TEASING SISTER NIBBLES HER NAILS SISTER NIBBLES HER NAILS IT DIDN'T TAKE SISTER LONG TO DECIDE MMM- LONG TO DECIDE TO IT DIDN'T TAKE SISTER LONG TO DECIDE TO PULL OFF THOSE BITS OF TAPE A HABIT MAMA SAID AS SHE PUSHED THE WHEELBARROW ALONG THE WELL WORN PATH IS SOMETHING YOU DO SO OFTEN YOU DON'T EVEN HAVE TO THINK ABOUT IT HABITS ARE VERY IMPORTANT UH IS A HABITS ARE A VERY IMPORTANT L- PART OF OUR LIVES MOST OF THEM ARE GOOD BRUSHING YOUR TEETH AND COMBING YOUR FUR WHEN YOU GET UP IN THE MORNING AND LOOKING BOTH WAYS BEFORE YOU CROSS A ROAD BUT SOME HABITS AREN'T SO GOOD LIKE NAIL BITING SISTER ASKED YOU WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOU NI- NICE NAILS GROW BACK WOULDN'T YOU WAS MAMA'S BEAR- WAS MAMA'S ANSWER OH YES SAID SISTER BUT I KEEP FORGETTING WHY IS IT SO WHY IS IT HARD TO REMEMBER WELL SAID MAMA IT'S SORT OF LIKE THIS PATH I'VE WHEELED THIS BARROW OVER IT OVER IT SO MANY TIMES THAT IT'S THAT IT'S WELL IT'S WORN A DEEP RUT RIGHT DOWN THE MIDDLE AND IT KEEPS GETTING DEEPER EVERY TIME I USE IT WHY IT'S SO DEEP NOW I CAN'T- I CAN'T GET OUT OF I CAN'T GET OUT OF IT WITH A LI- I CAN'T GET OUT I GET I CAN'T GET OUT I CAN'T I CAN'T GET OUT OF IT WITHOUT A LITTLE HELP THAT'S THAT'S THE WAY IT IS WITH YOUR BAD HABIT MORE YOU GET USE IT THE HARDER IT IS TO- TO GET IT OUT OF IT HERE THIS IS THAT I WANT THIS IS WHERE I WANT TO PLANT THE BULBS WHAT ABOUT MY NAIL BITING HABIT ASKED SISTER AS SHE HELPED MAMA GET OUT OF THE DEEP RUT HOW AM I GOING TO GET RID OF IT  GET OUT OF IT YOU JUST NEED A LITTLE HELP THAT'S ALL SAID MAMA LET'S LET'S PLANT GRAN'S TULIPS WHILE I THINK ABOUT IT AND LATER I'LL TALK TO YOUR PAPA HE- HE MAY HAVE SOME IDEAS I COULD READ THE RIOT ACT TO HER SUGGESTED PAPA YOU KNOW NAIL BITING IS AN OUTRAGEOUS DISGRACEFUL HABIT AND IF AND IF YOU DON'T STOP IT IMMEDIATELY DEAR ME NO SAID MAMA NAIL BITING IS A KIND OF NERVOUS HABIT AND SHOUTING AT- AND SHOUTING AND THREATENING WILL JUST MAKE HER MORE NERVOUS I SUPPOSE SO SAID PAPA THOUGHTFULLY PERHAPS SOME SORT OF REWARD WOULD HELP A BIT OF MONEY LET'S SAY A DIME FOR EVERY DAY SHE DOESN'T BITE HER NAILS  BEFORE MAMA BEFORE MAMA COULD ANSWER SISTER BEAR W- WHO HAD BEEN NERVOUSLY NIBBLING IN THE NEXT ROOM POPPED IN AND SAID A DIME TEN W- WHOLE CENTS EVERY DAY FOR DAY JUST FOR NOT BITING MY NAILS THAT'S RIGHT SAID PAPA UNTIL THE HABIT'S BROKEN I'LL NEVER NIBBLE AGAIN SHE SAID AS SHE THOUGHT OF ALL THOSE LOVELY DIMES SHE WAS GOING TO GET BUT THE WAY IT TURNED OUT SHE NEVER SHE DIDN'T GET A SINGLE DIME ALL SHE GOT WAS DISCOURAGED A DAY IS A LONG TIME AND HABITS ARE POWERFUL ESPECIALLY BAD HABITS EVEN WITH THE PROMISE OF A DIME SISTER COULDN'T REMEMBER NOT TO NIBBLE MAMA AND PAPA GOT DISCOURAGED TOO OH WELL SIGHED MAMA LIFE GOES ON I CALL GRAN AND AND THANK HER FOR THE TULIP TULIP BULB- MM- BULBS OH YOU'RE VERY WELCOME MY DEAR SAID GRAN WHEN MAMA CALLED AND HOW IS EVERYTHING AT YOUR HOUSE IS THAT SO YOU KNOW I WAS A NAIL BITER WHEN I WAS A CUB MY MAMA HELPED ME STOP WHAT YOU HA- WHAT HAVE YOU TRIED SO FAR UHM UH-HUH WELL I THINK YOU'RE ON WELL I THINK YOU'RE ON THE RIGHT TRACK WITH A DIME BUT INSTEAD OF A DIME AND INSTEAD OF GIVING IT TO HER AT THE END OF THE DAY WHAT AND INTERESTING IDEA SAID MAMA AS SHE LISTENED TO THE WISE TO WISE OLD GR- GRIZZLY GRAN  SO THEY TRIED GRAN'S IDEA INSTEAD OF A DIME AT THE END OF EACH DAY THEY THEY THEY GAVE SIS- SISTER TEN PENNIES FOR EACH NAIL AT THE BEGINNING OF ONE FOR EACH NAIL AT THE BEGINNING OF THE DAY TEN PENNIES TO KEEP UNLESS SHE NIBBLED AND THOSE PENNIES- AND WITH THOSE PENNIES IN HER POCKET JIGGLING WHEN SHE GOT ON THE SCHOOL BUS JING- JINGLING WHEN SHE JUMPED ROPE IN THE SCHOOLYARD JUST WAITING TO REM- JUST WAITING TO BE REMEMBERED WHEN SOME NAIL DECIDED IT NEEDED A NIBBLE THE PLAN WORKED NOT PERFECTLY IT'S HARD TO BREAK A HABIT SISTER HAD TO GIVE BACK SOME PENNIES OF THE- SOME OF THE BACK HAD TO GIVE BACK SOME OF THOSE PENNIES BUT IN TEN DAYS SHE HAD NINETY THREE PENNIES  BUT EVEN BETTER SHE HAD TEN FINE FINGERNAILS GREAT FOR PICKING THINGS UP TURNING ON THE TV AND SCRATCHING ITCHES AND THE NEXT TIME SHE PLAYED JACKS WHEN SHE GOT ALL- SHE GOT ALL THE WAY UP TO THE TENSIES PHEW SAID PAPA BEAR I'M GLAD THAT'S OVER YES INDEED AGREED MAMA BREATHING A GREAT SIGH OF RELIEF THAT'S WHEN BR- BROTHER BEAR LOOKED AT HIS FINGERNAILS AND PIPED UP YOU KNOW I THINK I MIGHT START BITING MY F- NAILS I COULD USE SOME MONEY  I COULD USE THE MONEY I CERTAINLY HOPE YOU'RE JOKING ROARED PAPA BECAUSE IF YOU'RE NOT I'M JOKING I'M JOKING INTERRUPTED BROTHER AND HE WAS SORT OF 
