"Oh yes, do," said Dickory. "Well," said Hickory, "I'd like to take a little stroll myself. But you must promise to be very careful, and not get into any trouble. I'll take you through the hole that I found." So the three little mice started off, with Hickory showing the way. Soon they came to a crack in the wall. Hickory stuck his head through. He saw that all was quiet- the family of people that lived in the house was fast asleep. So he went through the crack, and his two brothers came after. Their little hearts beat very fast, because they knew if they were found they would have to run for their lives. They crept over the thick carpet until they came to some stairs. "What shall we do now?" Hickory asked his brothers. "Let's go down," said Dock. So they went down the stairs to the hall of the house very carefully. They were surprised by what they saw. There was a big wall for hats and coats, a bucket for umbrellas, two very pretty chairs, and, best of all, a tall clock that stood on the floor and ticked out the minutes in a loud and strong voice. When the little mice first heard the ticking of the clock they were scared. They stayed close together on the bottom stair. "What is it?" asked Dickory quietly.  "I don't know," said Hickory. He was afraid too. "Is it alive?" asked Dock. "I don't know," said Hickory again. Then they saw that the clock didn't notice them, but kept ticking away. So they got their courage up and ran about.  Suddenly, Dickory gave a yell that made his brothers come running. There in a corner lay almost half of a muffin. The little girl of the family had dropped it when being carried upstairs to bed. It was a great find for the three mice. They ate until the last crumb was gone and they were fat and happy. "This is better than the kitchen," said Dock. They had finished their supper, "and I bet there are plenty more good things around if we only look for them." But they couldn't find more. All the doors in the hall were closed. Dock went to the clock. "It doesn't seem to be alive," he said, "but it does make a lot of noise. I'm going to go behind it to see what I can find." He found nothing except a hole to inside of the clock and he stuck his head in. Dock could hear the ticking louder than ever now. He looked way up to the top of the clock and saw something bright. He thought it must be good to eat if he could only get to it. Without saying anything to his brothers, Dock ran up the sides of the clock until he came to the gears. He was just about to bite at a shiny wheel to see what it tasted like. Suddenly the clock went "Bang!" It was one o'clock. The clock was just telling the time. But the big bell was just beside Dock's ear and the noise hurt the poor little mouse. He screamed with fear and ran down the clock as fast as he could go. When he got to the hall he heard his brothers running up the stairs. He ran after them as fast as he could. Only when they were safe in their nest again did they stop to breathe. They were so scared that their little hearts beat fast for an hour. Mamma Mouse came back in the morning. She brought some nice flour with her for breakfast. They told her about their adventure. She thought they had been punished enough already for not listening to her, so she did not scold them. She only said, "You see, my dears? Your mother knew best when she told you not leave the nest. Children sometimes think they know more than their parents. This adventure should teach you always to listen to your mother. The next time you run away it may end worse than last night. After all, remember what happened to your poor father."  But Hickory and Dickory and Dock did not run away again.
