The Airplane Ride The first time I ever took an airplane by myself it was fun and scary. I didn't know anyone at all and had to go all the way from New York to Texas without my parents. I was flying there to see my grandfather and we were going to go fishing.  I've always thought flying was fun. You go higher than any mountain and you go faster than any car. But to tell you the truth, without my parents there, I was pretty nervous. I guess it was because the plane was so loud and I didn't know anyone. I started thinking we might crash. I didn't like to think about that, but I couldn't help it. That's when I missed my parents the most. But once the plane was in the air I was pretty good. The Airplane Ride The first time I ever took an airplane by myself it was fun and scary. I didn't know anyone at all and had to go all the way from New York to Texas without my parents. I was flying there to see my grandfather and we were going to go fishing.  I've always thought flying was fun. You go higher than any mountain and you go faster than any car. But to tell you the truth, without my parents there, I was pretty nervous. I guess it was because the plane was so loud and I didn't know anyone. I started thinking we might crash. I didn't like to think about that, but I couldn't help it. That's when I missed my parents the most. But once the plane was in the air I was pretty good. My mom gave me a coloring book of cool looking dragons to keep me busy. I colored the dragon pictures all green, so it didn't take very long. I only used the green crayon because it was the tallest and I wanted it to catch up to the red, brown, blue, yellow, purple and black ones. One thing about being by yourself on an airplane is that the flight attendants are very nice to you. I had seven cola's and four ginger ale's which made me have to go to the bathroom eight times. I was glad that there wasn't anyone next to me. The person next to me would have been very annoyed.  Eventually, the flight attendant seemed to get a little annoyed that I had to go to the bathroom so much. But it was her fault! She was the one that kept trying to give me peanuts. I told her that I wanted a banana split instead, but she said, "They don't have any banana splits on the plane, but sometimes people like to eat peanuts on their banana splits." I told her that it was the peanuts that were making me so thirsty in the first place and that if she would get me a banana split I wouldn't have to go to the bathroom so much!  She told me to be quiet and watch the movie. I tried to watch the movie, but I had already seen that one so it was boring. The flight attendant gave me a deck of cards, but she wouldn't play "Go Fish" with me. She said that she had to help other passengers. 
