"Hey, Julio. Did you hear? There's going to be a big race in four weeks," said Derek to his friend. "I'm going to race in it, and I'm going to win." Julio laughed at Derek and said, "Oh, really? Prove it! I'll race you to my house, and we'll see who wins." "Ready, set, go," shouted Derek. The two boys ran as fast as they could. At first they were running at the same speed. "He's not so great," thought Julio. But after a while, Derek was far ahead of Julio. Derek turned and shouted, "Told you! Told you! I'm going to win the race. You might as well not even sign up, Julio." Julio was mad. He could hardly catch his breath. His body felt tired. When he got home, he slammed the door behind him. "What's wrong?" his big sister Elena asked. "There's going to be a big race. Derek is going to beat me. He beats me at everything," Julio said sadly. Elena had an idea. "Why don't you train for the race?" "How do I do that?" Julio asked. "Come to track practice tomorrow. You can talk to my coach. I'm sure she can help you," said Elena. The next day, Julio went to see Coach Benson. "If you want to be a better runner, there are three things you should do," she said. "First you should run for fifteen minutes every day." "How will that help?" asked Julio. "When you run, you use a lot of muscles in your body," explained Coach Benson. "Your muscles aren't used to running. If you run a little every day, your muscles will get stronger. Muscles that are exercised can work longer without getting tired." "OK." said Julio. "What else can I do?" "In a race, you not only want to be able to run and not get tired, you also want to run fast," said Coach Benson. "So the second thing you should do is some sprinting. You should do it every other day. Do you know what sprinting means?" Julio thought for a moment. He had never heard that word before. "I don't think so, Coach," he said. "Pick a spot that is not too far away. Race to it as fast as you can. Rest for a minute, then race back to where you started. That's what sprinting means. Do that four times," explained Coach Benson. "And don't forget to warm up before you run. That is the third important thing to do. Your sister can show you how." Julio looked at Elena. "What does warm up mean?" he asked. "Warming up means doing stretching exercises," Elena said. "You stretch your muscles. Muscles that haven't been stretched can get hurt. It is always good to stretch before running." "OK, big sister, show me what to do," said Julio. For the next four weeks, Julio went to the park every day. Training for the race was not easy. Sometimes he didn't feel like running, but he made himself do it anyway. He practiced just like the coach and his sister had told him to. He always stretched his muscles before he ran. Every other day Julio worked on his speed. He would choose a tree not too far away and race to it. He would rest by counting to sixty. Then he would run back to where he started. Then he'd do it over again. Each time he practiced sprinting, he thought of what it would be like when he beat Derek in the big race. At first, Julio found it hard to run. He was out of breath. He could feel his heart pounding in his chest. But as the days passed, he ran longer and farther without getting tired. His muscles got stronger. The stronger he got, the more he could run. He used his watch to time himself, and he knew he was getting faster. He was happy at how well he was doing. Now when he ran his heart beat steadily. Every day he wrote down in his notebook how much he had run. Finally the day of the big race came. Everyone in school was at the track. The runners lined up to start. Derek turned to Julio and said, "I'm surprised that you're even here. I'm the one who will win this race." Julio didn't say anything. He was too busy warming up. At last the big moment came. The principal of the school called out, "On your mark! Get set! GO!" The race was on! As quickly as they could, Derek and another runner named Beth took the lead. Suddenly, Derek started to slow down.  He was tired and out of breath. As they raced around the track, Julio sped past Derek. Now Beth was the only runner ahead of Julio. He poured on the speed. But so did Beth. Now Julio understood why the coach had told him to practice sprinting. As the two runners crossed the finish line, Julio broke the tape. Beth was a close second. Julio beamed as the principal placed a medal around his neck. He had run his very best that day. And he had beaten Derek. Julio turned to Beth. "I bet you practice, don't you?" "Sure I do. I want to be on the track team some day," said Beth. "So do I," said Julio. "Do you think we could practice running together?" "OK. Meet me tomorrow afternoon," she said. "You're on!" Julio grinned.
