Maria was proud of the plan she had drawn. She had even signed her name at the bottom. But she still needed some advice from her cousin Francine. Francine was an engineer. She'd know the best place to build the clubhouse. Francine was staying at & the Ruiz ranch while she studied earthquakes. She was also studying how to build buildings that would not fall down in an earthquake. "Do you like it?" Maria asked as Francine spread out the plan on the kitchen table. "Is the plan okay? Where should my friends and I build our clubhouse?" "One question at a time," Francine laughed. "You have a good plan, but the walls should be made of wood, not bricks." "But Dad and I dug up the bricks from the old patio. They're still good," Maria explained. "It's great to reuse materials," Francine said. "But bricks can fall on you during an earthquake." "We haven't had an earthquake here for a long time," Mr. Ruiz said as he came into the kitchen. "So why worry?" "You don't have to worry, but I believe people should be prepared," Francine said. "Earthquakes have done a lot of damage in some parts of California." "Will there ever be an earthquake near our ranch?" Maria asked.  "We don't know for sure," Francine said. "Our studies show that there has been some minor seismic activity near here." "What's seismic activity?" Maria asked. "During most earthquakes, rock deep inside the earth moves and breaks apart. When the broken rock shakes, it sends out vibrations that move the earth. These vibrations are called seismic waves. It's like dropping a stone in a pool of water." Maria nodded. "The stone splashes and waves go out in a circle," she said. "Right," Francine said. "Sometimes the earth rolls up and down. If an earthquake is strong enough, it can cause buildings to fall apart, but you can make some buildings almost earthquake proof." "How?" Maria asked. "First you need to find a place to build on that's solid, like that area by the barn. There's probably granite deep under the dirt there. Granite is a very hard rock. It usually stays firm in an earthquake." Francine picked up a pencil and quickly made a sketch. "When you build, you should use wood and put a brace here and here." "Hey, I have an idea." Mr. Ruiz looked over Francine's shoulder. "You can build the clubhouse on that square of concrete near the barn. We used to have a shed there. When the wood rotted, I tore it down." "That's great," Francine said. "The building can be braced on the concrete." "Thanks, Dad. And thanks for your help, Francine," Maria said. "I'm going to find my friends and tell them we'll start building tomorrow!" One of Maria's friends brought sturdy wood for the sides of their building. Another brought a piece of canvas for the roof. By the end of the week, the clubhouse was nearly finished. "Good choice for the roof," Francine said one afternoon as she checked on their progress. "Canvas is lightweight, so it won't hurt anyone if there's an earthquake." The last job was to make a sign. Maria had just finished when Calico, her cat, streaked past. Calico scampered up a pile of bricks, jumped onto the clubhouse, and disappeared over the other side. Maria shook her head. Calico had never acted like this. Then Maria felt the ground shake. She looked over toward the barn. The farm bell was ringing by itself! Maria couldn't believe what was happening. For a minute Maria could not move. Her father walked over to her side. "Are you okay?" Francine ran toward them. "We just had an earthquake! It wasn't very strong, but a few dishes fell off the shelves," she said. "I ducked under the table so I'd be safe. I'm glad you two were out in the open. Nothing could fall on you." "Oh, it was only a little rock and roll." Mr. Ruiz tried to smile. "Did you know this earthquake was coming?" "Unfortunately, no," Francine said. "However there were a few signs, like more seismic activity. And today the chickens were acting strangely." "Calico, too!" Maria remembered. Francine nodded. "Animals may feel movement deep in the earth before we can feel it. But we can't depend on them. We have to learn what to do when an earthquake strikes." "Right," Maria said with a smile. "Like building an earthquake proof clubhouse!"
