The Slowest Turtle Every four years, turtles from all over the land would crawl to Great Pond. It would take some turtles from far away villages two whole weeks just to get there. When all the turtles arrived there was a seven day festival called the Shell Dwellers Festival where there was lots of eating and laughing. Turtles could catch up with friends they had not seen since the last festival.  Everything about the festival was fun, but the main event was the Great Turtle Race.  The winner of the Great Turtle Race was so important that he or she didn't have to move for four years, until the next festival. The less a turtle moves the bigger they get and the longer they live. So you can see winning the Great Race is a great honor.  The Slowest Turtle Every four years, turtles from all over the land would crawl to Great Pond. It would take some turtles from far away villages two whole weeks just to get there. When all the turtles arrived there was a seven day festival called the Shell Dwellers Festival where there was lots of eating and laughing. Turtles could catch up with friends they had not seen since the last festival.  Everything about the festival was fun, but the main event was the Great Turtle Race.  The winner of the Great Turtle Race was so important that he or she didn't have to move for four years, until the next festival. The less a turtle moves the bigger they get and the longer they live. So you can see winning the Great Race is a great honor.  The Slowest Turtle Every four years, turtles from all over the land would crawl to Great Pond. It would take some turtles from far away villages two whole weeks just to get there. When all the turtles arrived there was a seven day festival called the Shell Dwellers Festival where there was lots of eating and laughing. Turtles could catch up with friends they had not seen since the last festival.  Everything about the festival was fun, but the main event was the Great Turtle Race.  The winner of the Great Turtle Race was so important that he or she didn't have to move for four years, until the next festival. The less a turtle moves the bigger they get and the longer they live. So you can see winning the Great Race is a great honor.  The Turtle Cup was the trophy that the winner would take home to their village. It had been in Sludge Pond for over fifty years because no one could ever beat their turtle. This was the most famous turtle there was. He was the slowest turtle of all time. He hadn't had to move for over fifty years! He was the biggest, most respected and also one of the trickiest turtles there was. There were many legends about him. It was rumored he was so slow, his heart would only beat once a day. His name was Mud, and he was the greatest champion in the history of Shell Dweller's Festival. He was unbeatable.  When Mud was in his prime there was a new turtle born in "Blue Pond". This turtle was named Swish. When Swish was born everyone thought he was a little slow, but as he got a little older the turtles began to realize that Swish was really, really, REALLY slow. Once his mother called him in for dinner and he didn't make it home until breakfast the next morning (and he was only a foot away)!!! Blue Pond was a nice village located about three days crawl from Great Pond. They all felt a little sad because they hadn't held the Turtle Cup in over a seven hundred years. So, with Swish, they thought, maybe, just maybe he could bring back the Turtle Cup to their little pond.  Everyone treated Swish differently. For example, Mr. Peeks, the local shell cleaner would say, "Hey there Swish, do you want a free shell waxing today? We all want you to look good when you bring home the Cup. Mrs. Snapper would say, "Hi Swishy, do you want some yummy pie to fill you up and slow you down for the big race. A fat turtle is a slow turtle."  Mrs. Snapper was never nice to anyone but she was being nice to Swish. Mr. Peeks would never do anything for free, but he was going to give Swish a free shell waxing. This was the kind of thing that Swish would get all the time.  All the extra attention made Swish very uncomfortable. He thought, "Sure they are nice to me now, because they think I can win the race, but if I lose they'll be disappointed and mad at me. I never promised that I would win the race. I can't beat Mud anyway. I heard once it took him three days just to yawn."  So one day he told his parents, "I don't want to race! " All the turtles in "Blue Pond" held a meeting to discuss the problem. The mayor, Dr. Softshell said, "This is ridiculous! Swish has to race! He's the slowest turtle I've every seen, except for Mud of course. Without him we don't have a chance!" "But he doesn't want to be treated special! He just wants to be normal and he doesn't want everybody to hate him if he can't beat Mud. You have to remember that even though he's gifted at being slow, he's still very young.," said Swish's father. "We never thought of that," they all said. The town agreed to treat Swish like a normal turtle and after a while Swish decided that he would be proud to race for his village. When the time of the festival drew near all the turtles in the land started toward Great Pond. Swish had to be carried on his father's back since it would have taken him months to get to Great Pond by himself. Finally, after the long journey, all the turtles arrived at Great Pond.  This was Swish's first ever Shell Dwellers Festival and he thought it was the most wonderful thing he had ever seen. There were thousands of turtles of all different species, all having a great time.  "Look there's your cousin, Peek-a-Boo from 'Big Puddle' village," said Swish's mother. "You'll get to meet all sorts of new turtles." Swish was suddenly very excited. He told his mom, "You know what, I'm going to win this race. I know it! And all these turtles will know that Blue Pond rules! I'm not afraid of stupid, Mud."  Swish's mom smiled and said, "I know that you can win Swish, but it's an honor just to get to race," said Swish's mom.  Swish saw a rock in the middle of the field and wondered, "How come they don't move that big rock out of the field? It seems to be in everyone's way," said Swish. "That's not a rock, Sweetie," said his mom, "That's Mud!" Swish made a loud "gulp" sound. "Just do your best." said his mom. Swishes father said, "Son, I have something to tell you. As you know, your great, great grand-turtle raced Mud once. He wasn't as slow as you but he did teach about Mud's dirty tricks. Then he whispered in Swish's ear all the tricks that his great, great grand- turtle taught him. After seven days of playing and dancing and bug eating, finally, the day of the race came.  The Mayor of Great Pond, Mrs. Tort , posted the rules of the race on a tree for everyone to see.  They read: Rule Number One-The Great Race begins at Sunrise and ends at Sunset. Rule Number Two-All turtles must run as fast as they can and the turtle that is closest to the starting line wins.  Rule number Three-No turtle may pretend to be going fast but go slow instead. All turtle must go as fast as they can at all times. SINCE TURTLES NEVER CHEAT THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT RULE! TO BREAK THIS RULE WOULD MEAN AN END TO THE GREAT TURTLE RACE FOREVER. Rule Number Four-No turtle may fall asleep, since, if you are asleep, you aren't running as fast as you can.  Swish read the rules even though he knew them by heart. Then he heard the Mayor say, "Runner's, please take your positions."  The slowest turtles from each pond were carried to the starting line by members of their villages. There were about three hundred turtles racing. They were all the slowest of the slow. The turtles all stretched and thought really slow thoughts. As they did the sky turned from black to dark blue. They looked at the horizon and saw the sun was starting the rise. Just then the Mayor said, "Ready, Set, Slow!" and off they went.  All the turtles were very, very slow, so it took some time before anyone could figure out which turtles were the slowest. After a few hours, most of the turtles had gone a few feet. All except two. Swish and Mud were both back at the starting line. It looked as if neither of them had moved at all. They were both moving of course, but they were so slow that it was hard to tell. After six hours Mud and Swish were still tied and had only moved a few inches.  By now all the turtles were usually way ahead of Mud, but this time Swish was just as slow! Mud knew that this would be his closest race ever and he was actually getting a little bit scared. "Who, is this young punk?" he thought to himself.  Mud said to Swish, "There's no way that a turtle as young as you can be so slow. Even I was faster than you when I was your age. You're cheating. You're going to ruin the Great Race forever." But Swish wouldn't let Mud scare him. "You're just trying to make me quit. I'm not going to fall for your tricks!" he said. "Turtles never cheat and I'm a turtle with honor!" Then Mud tried another trick. He started singing a soft, beautiful lullaby. Swish started yawning. He was tired from racing and thought that it would be nice to just listen to Mud's sweet voice and fall asleep. Then he snapped out of it and remembered his father had warned him of this trick. He reached in his shell and pulled out a couple of earplugs! He put the earplugs in his ears and couldn't hear Mud's singing anymore. Mud kept singing his lullaby for a few hours but he stopped right before sunset. The crowd thought he must have realized that his singing trick wasn't working. But then right at the end, right before the sunset, Swish started to pull ahead of Mud! "Oh, no!" shouted the fans. "Mud's winning! It looks like Mud is still the greatest turtle of them all." And when the sun went down, Mud was the closest turtle to the starting line.  Swish was sad that he lost but all the turtles from Blue Pond cheered for Swish. They were very proud he gave Mud such a close race. Swish was happy too, but deep down inside he knew he was just as slow as Mud. The Mayor of Pondland went to present the Turtle Cup to Sludge Pond again.  She announced, "Well Mud, it looks like you've done it! Sludge Pond wins the Turtle Cup again! This time it was a bit closer than you would have liked I'll bet. What would you like to say to all the turtles at the festival?"  The crowd started yelling, "Speech! Speech!"  Mud didn't answer. The Mayor tapped Mud on the shell and said "Hello. Hello! Mud!" Mud still didn't answer. In fact, Mud was sound asleep. Mud had actually sung HIMSELF to sleep. "Ladies and Gentlemen," she said, "Mud from Sludge Pond has been disqualified for sleeping during the race. This means that we have a new champion! The real winner is Swish Softbelly of Blue Pond." The crowd went wild.  Mrs. Tort went up to Swish and gave him the Turtle Cup. She said, "Swish, you are the youngest winner of the Great Turtle Race. That was the most exciting finish we've ever had. I think that you'll be a great champion for many years, since turtles only get slower with age. For the first time in six hundred years I would like to present the Turtle Cup to Blue Pond." The crowd went wild again. Swish took the Cup that day for the first time. He would take it many more times after that. It was because of Swish that Blue Pond became the most respected pond in the land. He would never lose the Turtle Cup for the rest of his long life. But though he became the greatest and biggest turtle of all time, much greater or bigger than Mud, he always made sure that no one treated him special and that he treated everybody like he wanted to be treated. Like a turtle with honor.
