Why The Evergreen Trees Keep Their Leaves modified by Taylor Struemph from Florence Holbrook's "A Book of Nature" illustrated by Kim Kelly One day, a long, long time ago, it was very cold. Winter was coming, and all the birds flew away to the warm south. There they would wait for the spring.  But one little bird had a broken wing and could not fly. He did not know what to do. He looked all round, to see if there was any place where he could keep warm. He saw the trees of the big forest. "Maybe the trees will keep me warm through the winter," he said. So he went to the forest, hopping and fluttering with his broken wing. The first tree he came to was a silver birch. "Beautiful birch tree," he said, "will you let me live in your warm branches until the springtime comes?" "Oh My!" said the birch, "what a thing to ask! I have to take care of my own leaves through the winter. Go away." The little bird hopped and fluttered with his broken wing until he came to the next tree. It was a great, big oak tree. "O big oak-tree," said the little bird, "will you let me live in your warm branches until the springtime comes?" "What a thing to ask!" said the oak tree. "If you stay in my branches all winter you will be eating my acorns. Go away." So the little bird hopped and fluttered with his broken wing till he came to the willow tree by the edge of the brook. "O willow tree," said the little bird, "will you let me live in your warm branches until the springtime comes?" "No!" said the willow-tree. "I never talk to strangers. Go away." The poor little bird did not know where to go; but he hopped and fluttered along with his broken wing. The spruce-tree saw him, and said, "Where are you going, little bird?" "I do not know," said the bird. "The trees will not let me live with them, and my wing is broken and I cannot fly." "You may live on one of my branches," said the spruce. "Here is the warmest one of all." "But may I stay all winter?" "Yes," said the spruce. "I will like to have you." The pine tree stood beside the spruce. When he saw the little bird hopping and fluttering with his broken wing, he said, "My branches are not very warm, but I can keep the wind off because I am big and strong." So the little bird fluttered up into the warm branch of the spruce. The pine tree kept the wind off his house. Then the juniper tree saw what the pine and spruce were doing. She said that she would give the little bird his dinner for the winter from her branches. Juniper berries are very good for little birds. The little bird was very happy in his warm nest away from the wind, with juniper berries to eat. The trees at the edge of the forest talked to each other. "I wouldn't take care of a strange bird," said the birch. "I wouldn't risk my acorns," said the oak.  "I would not talk to strangers," said the willow. And the three trees stood up very tall and proud. That night the North Wind came to the woods to play. He blew at the leaves with his icy breath, and every leaf he touched fell to the ground. He wanted to touch every leaf in the forest, he loved to see the trees bare. "May I touch every leaf?" he said to his father, the Frost King. "No," said the Frost King, "the trees which were kind to the bird with the broken wing may keep their leaves." So North Wind had to leave them alone. The spruce, the pine, and the juniper-tree kept their leaves through all the winter. And they have done so ever since.
