Rooster John Before I tell you how Rooster John got his name you should know a little bit about the town of Franksville. Franksville was a town that seemed to have one problem after the other.  Their problems started when they ran out of water. Thankfully someone was digging a hole and found water. But soon after that they started to get flies. They got tons and tons of flies. Then the flies stopped, but just then a man moved into town who played the flute so badly that people would run away screaming. Maybe a poorly played flute doesn't sound all that bad, but just try to imagine someone scratching a chalkboard with a fork and then multiply that times a hundred. That's how the flute sounded when this guy played it. I'm serious. Still, it's not as bad as millions of flies I suppose. The bad flute player was Rooster John. He wasn't called Rooster John yet. That came later. He was the new town dentist. He was an excellent dentist, but his real love was music. He played many musical instruments such as the guitar, the tuba, the piano, and the clarinet. However, for some reason, the way his mouth was shaped made his flute sound awful.  "We can't let you play the flute anymore John," said Police Chief Sanders. "The neighbors are complaining and the cats and dogs are trying to chew off their ears."  "But, I have to play. I was born to do it. I don't know why, but I feel like I have to or else bad things will happen." "Look, John. I've heard you play the clarinet. You're quite good. Why don't you play that instead?" said Chief Sanders. "Oh, that's a nice instrument, but it's just not the flute! I even wrote you a song Chief Sanders. It's called, Cops and Robbers." Then he played the song. The Police Chief hated the sound so much that he threw John in jail. The bad flute player was Rooster John. He wasn't called Rooster John yet. That came later. He was the new town dentist. He was an excellent dentist, but his real love was music. He played many musical instruments such as the guitar, the tuba, the piano, and the clarinet. However, for some reason, the way his mouth was shaped made his flute sound awful.  "We can't let you play the flute anymore John," said Police Chief Sanders. "The neighbors are complaining and the cats and dogs are trying to chew off their ears."  "But, I have to play. I was born to do it. I don't know why, but I feel like I have to or else bad things will happen." "Look, John. I've heard you play the clarinet. You're quite good. Why don't you play that instead?" said Chief Sanders. "Oh, that's a nice instrument, but it's just not the flute! I even wrote you a song Chief Sanders. It's called, Cops and Robbers." Then he played the song. The Police Chief hated the sound so much that he threw John in jail. But they couldn't keep John in jail since he wasn't really breaking any laws so there was nothing the police could do. Besides, everybody loved John. Since he had become the town dentist, everybody's teeth were much whiter and cleaner and no one had any cavities.  So there was a problem in the little town of Franksville. What should they do? They couldn't keep John in jail and they didn't want to kick him out of town because they all had such nice teeth, so they decided that John could play the flute and everybody else would have to wear earplugs. Well, I'm sure you guessed that didn't work. No one could hear anything. People were getting into car accidents and everybody looked really silly at dances, dancing to music they couldn't hear. They just couldn't lead a normal life. Then they decided to lower him down a well and let him play down where no one could hear him. John thought that was an ok idea, but there was an echo in the well that made the flute sound LOUDER. Windows were breaking and all the cows in town started to make sour milk. The local scientist, Dr. Wong, came up with an idea. He thought that if he made a new mouthpiece especially shaped for John's mouth then perhaps he could play the flute normally. And guess what? It worked. Dr. Wong was the town hero! The flute sounded normal and it turned out John could play it quite well.  The people in the town decided to have a great big parade in Franksville to celebrate the fact that for once there was no water problem, no fly problem and no flute problem.  Dr. Wong and John were the stars of the parade. They were up on the main float. A big band played as they marched up and down Main Street. Everyone cheered.  Then suddenly, a fly landed on a little girl. Then a fly landed on someone else. Then some landed on a bunch of people. Then pretty soon tons of flies were landing on everyone! Before they knew it, the town was filled with flies again. "Oh no!" said Chief Sanders. "Just when things were going good for Franksville." John didn't know what to do so he just kept on playing his flute. The flies were annoying, so he would swat at them with his hand or even his new flute. He started shaking the flute to get the flies off and accidentally smashed it into pieces. He was very upset at first. Then he said, "Oh well. Good thing I brought my old flute as back-up." "No. No! Please don't play your old flute," begged Dr. Wong. But it was too late, John had started playing. When the townsfolk heard the noise they couldn't even swat at the flies anymore. They had to cover their ears from the horrible sound. The flies would land all over the people and they couldn't swat them off. It was gross! Then suddenly, the flies flew away fast as they could. Dr. Wong thought for a second then pronounced, "It's the flute sound! The flies hate John's flute playing as much as we do. John the dentist is driving the flies away!" It was then that the people of Franksville realized that they would have to take the good with the bad, because as bad as the flute sounded, it was a lot better than thousands of flies crawling on them. From then on, John would wake up at sunrise like a Rooster and play to keep the flies away. 
