The Adventures of The Little Field Mouse modified by Taylor Struemph illustrated by Aurora Sidney-Ando Once upon a time, there was a little brown field Mouse. One day he was out in the grass to see what he could see. He ran around in the grass, poked his nose into everything and looked all around. He saw a shiny acorn in the grass. It was such a nice acorn. "I will take it home," he said. So he put out his paw to touch it, but the little acorn rolled away from him. He ran after it, but it kept rolling. It came to a big oak tree with roots all over the ground. Then it rolled under a big round root. Little Mr. Field Mouse ran to the root and poked his nose at the acorn. He saw a small hole in the ground. He went in and saw some stairs going down into the earth. The acorn was rolling down, so he went down too. Down, down, down, rolled the acorn, and down, down, down, went the Field Mouse. He saw a tiny door at the foot of the stairs. The shiny acorn rolled to the door and hit it with a tap. The little door opened and the acorn rolled inside. The Field Mouse went fast down the stairs and in the door. It shut and he was in a little room. In it there was a funny little Red Man! He had a little red cap, and a little red coat, and little red shoes with points at the toes. "You are in my jail," he said to the Field Mouse. "Why?" said the Field Mouse. "Because you tried to take my acorn," said the little Red Man. "It is my acorn, I found it," said the Field Mouse. "No, it is not," said the little Red Man. "I have it. You will never see it again." The little Field Mouse looked at the room, but he didn't see any acorn. He wanted to go back up the tiny stairs to his own home. But the little door was locked, and the little Red Man had the key. And he said to the mouse, "You will be mine. You will make my bed and clean my room and cook my food." So the little brown Mouse made the little Red Man's bed and cleaned the little Red Man's room and cooked the little Red Man's food. And every day the little Red Man went away out the tiny door, and did not come back until afternoon. But he always locked the door after him, and took the key.  At last, one day he was in such a hurry that he turned the key before the door was shut. The door did not lock at all. He went away in a rush. The little Field Mouse knew that he could run away home. But he did not want to go without the pretty acorn. He did not know where it was. He looked everywhere. He looked in every little drawer, but it was not there. He looked in every closet, but could not find it. Then he got up on a chair and opened a teeny, tiny door in the wall. There it was! He took it in his paws. Then he took it in his mouth. Then he ran away. He pushed open the little door. He climbed up, up, up the little stairs. He came out the hole under the root. He ran and ran in the fields. At last he came to his own house. When he was in his own house he set the shiny acorn on the table. He set it down too hard. With a little snap, it opened, like a little box. Inside it was a tiny necklace! It was a very pretty necklace. It was made of jewels and just the right size for a girl mouse. So the little Field Mouse gave the tiny necklace to his little Mouse-sister. She thought it was pretty. When she did not wear it, she kept it in the shiny acorn box. And the little Red Man never knew where his necklace went, because he did not know where the little Field Mouse lived!
