Clint took out his special box. He kept his favorite things in that box. There was the arrowhead he found in a field. There was a beautiful golden shell and a key chain from the zoo. But the best thing in Clint's box was the blue ribbon his father had won at the county fair when he was a boy. Clint wished he could win a blue ribbon, just like his dad did. "This summer I'll get the chance," he thought. If Clint could think of a project for his farm club, he just might win. The club gave ribbons for the best projects. Clint needed a good idea. Clint's mother was getting the family garden ready for spring planting. Clint always helped her. He loved to dig in the dirt and plant seeds. The best part was watching the seeds sprout. As Clint worked in the garden, he got a great idea. "Why don't I try to grow something all by myself? I could enter what I grow as my project for the farm club." Clint went to look for his father. He found him working in the barn.  "Dad, can I talk to you for a minute?" Clint asked. "Sure, Clint," said his father. "What can I do for you?" "Well, do your remember that blue ribbon you won at the fair? I really want to win one, too," said Clint. "I was thinking. Maybe I could grow something all by myself to enter at the fair. I wondered what kinds of seeds I could plant," finished Clint. "Go get the seed basket. Take a look at what's in there," said Dad. "Whatever seeds you choose, I'll be glad to help." Clint looked at the seed packets. At the bottom of the basket was a packet marked "Sweet Corn." When Clint saw those words, he could almost taste that wonderful corn. "This is it, Dad! I'm going to grow sweet corn! Blue-ribbon sweet corn." Dad smiled to see Clint so excited. "You'd better read the directions," Dad said. "Growing good corn takes a lot of work." Clint read the directions on the seed packet. 1. Plant sweet corn in early May. 2. Get the ground ready for planting. 3. Plant seeds in a sunny spot. 4. Plant seeds in straight rows. 5. Water seeds once a week if it does not rain. 6. The corn should be fully grown in 85 days. "I think I can do it, Dad," said Clint. "Good," said Dad. "Today is May first, so you'd better start now. You can use the small plot by your mother's garden to plant your crop." That afternoon, Clint planted the corn seeds in four neat rows. Spring turned into summer. The days passed quickly. When it didn't rain, Clint remembered to water his corn. Soon the green shoots were growing tall and straight. Slowly, long leaves grew out of the stalks. By July the plants were as tall as Clint. One day Dad and Clint stood out by the corn plants. "It's time to watch for tassels on your corn plants," said Dad. "What are tassels, Dad?" Clint asked. "Tassels are flowers," Dad answered. "They grow on top of the corn stalk. Tassels make a yellow dust called pollen. Your corn plants need pollen to grow ears of corn. The wind helps corn pollen fall over the plant." Clint looked at his corn plants. "How does pollen help the plants?" "Strings of corn silk hang out of each corn husk. These strings catch the pollen," said Dad. "They take it into the cob, where the kernels will grow. There is one string of corn silk for each kernel. When the pollen reaches the cob, the kernels begin to grow." Every day Clint checked his plants for tassels. He wondered if the wind would blow enough pollen onto the corn silk. One afternoon Clint found his dad in the fields. "Dad," he said, "I'm worried that not enough pollen will fall on the corn silk." "Well," said Dad, "sometimes the wind doesn't blow enough pollen onto the silk. Then, the farmer has to help. You want your corn to be especially good. Maybe you should think up a way to sprinkle the pollen onto the silk yourself." Clint thought and thought. Finally, he looked at some of his parents' farming magazines. An hour later, Clint ran to his corn plants. He had found a way to spread the pollen. First, he put a brown paper bag over a tassel. Next, he held the bag shut at the bottom. Carefully, he bent the tassel so that the pollen would not spill out of the bag. Then he shook the plant. The pollen fell off the tassel and into the bag. Finally, Clint took the bag off the tassel and sprinkled the pollen on the corn silk of each ear. Soon the silk and husks of each plant were covered with pollen. It was long, hard work, but Clint was happy. He had solved a problem, just like a real farmer. Over the next few weeks, the corn grew quickly. Clint worked in his rows every day. Finally, he marked off the last of the 85 days. That morning he picked three ears of corn. "These ears are the best," he said. "I'll enter them in the fair." When the fair was over, Clint came home and took out his special box. He smiled as he laid a new blue ribbon next to his father's. Now there were two blue ribbons in the family.
