The Gold In The Orchard adapted from the Italian Folk tale illustrated by Nigel Sussman A farmer who had worked hard all his life was sick. He knew that he would die soon. He called his three sons to his bed to give them some advice. They were good sons, but did not like farm work. They wanted to make money fast. "My sons," he said, "Take good care of the orchard. Do not sell it. There is a pot of gold under the dirt. Dig for it if you want. Turn over every foot of earth, then turn it again and again. The treasure is there." The Gold In The Orchard adapted from the Italian Folk tale illustrated by Nigel Sussman A farmer who had worked hard all his life was sick. He knew that he would die soon. He called his three sons to his bed to give them some advice. They were good sons, but did not like farm work. They wanted to make money fast. "My sons," he said, "Take good care of the orchard. Do not sell it. There is a pot of gold under the dirt. Dig for it if you want. Turn over every foot of earth, then turn it again and again. The treasure is there." The sons tried to get him to tell them where the gold was hidden. He would not tell them. After the farmer was gone, the sons went to work to find the pot of gold. They did not know where the hiding place was. They decided to begin in a line at one end of the orchard, and to dig until one of them found the money. The sons tried to get him to tell them where the gold was hidden. He would not tell them. After the farmer was gone, the sons went to work to find the pot of gold. They did not know where the hiding place was. They decided to begin in a line at one end of the orchard, and to dig until one of them found the money. They dug until they had turned up the soil from one end of the orchard to the other. They dug around the tree roots and between them. But they found no pot of gold. They thought maybe someone had stolen it. They thought maybe their father had gone crazy. The three sons were upset to have worked for nothing. The next olive season, the olive trees in the orchard grew more fruit than ever. The good work they had done digging brought the fruit. It was so good that when it was sold, they got a whole pot of gold! The sons saw how much money had come from the orchard. Then they knew what the wise father had meant when he said, "There is gold hidden in the orchard; dig for it."
