Lois and Sam were reporters for The Kids' Science Newsletter. They studied their new assignment. "It's a tough one, Sam," said Lois. "We have to write an article about sight." "Eyesight?" Sam asked. "One of our senses? That shouldn't be too hard." "That's not the problem," Lois replied. "The problem is, when are we going to have time to do it? It's due on Monday. Today is Friday." "Right, and tomorrow is our field trip to the zoo with Ms. Gordon," added Sam. "Maybe we won't be able to go to the zoo tomorrow," Lois said sadly. On their way out of school, Lois and Sam met Ms. Gordon. "Why do you have such gloomy faces?" she asked. "Aren't you excited about our field trip tomorrow?" Lois and Sam were reporters for The Kids' Science Newsletter. They studied their new assignment. "It's a tough one, Sam," said Lois. "We have to write an article about sight." "Eyesight?" Sam asked. "One of our senses? That shouldn't be too hard." "That's not the problem," Lois replied. "The problem is, when are we going to have time to do it? It's due on Monday. Today is Friday." "Right, and tomorrow is our field trip to the zoo with Ms. Gordon," added Sam. "Maybe we won't be able to go to the zoo tomorrow," Lois said sadly. On their way out of school, Lois and Sam met Ms. Gordon. "Why do you have such gloomy faces?" she asked. "Aren't you excited about our field trip tomorrow?" Lois and Sam were reporters for The Kids' Science Newsletter. They studied their new assignment. "It's a tough one, Sam," said Lois. "We have to write an article about sight." "Eyesight?" Sam asked. "One of our senses? That shouldn't be too hard." "That's not the problem," Lois replied. "The problem is, when are we going to have time to do it? It's due on Monday. Today is Friday." "Right, and tomorrow is our field trip to the zoo with Ms. Gordon," added Sam. "Maybe we won't be able to go to the zoo tomorrow," Lois said sadly. On their way out of school, Lois and Sam met Ms. Gordon. "Why do you have such gloomy faces?" she asked. "Aren't you excited about our field trip tomorrow?" "That's the problem," Sam told her. "We really want to go, but we have work to do. We have to write an article about eyesight." "So we won't have time to go to the zoo," added Lois. Ms. Gordon smiled. "Oh, that's no problem! You can visit the zoo and learn about eyesight too," she said. "We'll meet at the zoo at ten o'clock. Don't be late!" Sam and Lois looked puzzled. How could they do research about eyesight at the zoo? But they both agreed it was worth a try. On Saturday morning, Lois, Sam, and ten other students met Ms. Gordon at the zoo gates. "Hi!" Ms. Gordon called. "Everyone is here, so let's go!" "But Ms. Gordon," Lois said, "We're still not sure how we can find facts about eyesight here." "I'm sure you two will think of something," Ms. Gordon smiled. "Here's the snake house." Sam and Lois followed the group into the snake house. They stopped in front of three windows. Lois looked through the windows. "What snakes do you see?" she asked. "I don't see much," answered Sam. They were turning away when Lois said, "Wait! I saw something moving out of the corner of my eye! Right there, near that big rock. A long, black snake." "It's a black mamba," Sam said, reading the sign below the window. He looked at Lois. She seemed to be thinking. "I saw that snake out of the corner of my eye," she said slowly. "That's called-" "Peripheral vision!" finished Sam. "Being able to see things at our sides." "Right," continued Lois. "Peripheral vision is a fact we can put in our article." "Yes," said Sam. "And, we can see things that move. That's a second fact we can put in our article. This article won't be so hard to write." Lois was about to agree, but instead she pointed into another cage. "Look Sam! It's a big, fat snake." "Where?" Sam asked. "I don't see it." "Right there," she said, "lying in the grass. It's hard to see because it's green, like the grass. But the snake is dark, and the grass is light green." "Oh, I see it now. Hey, those are two more facts about eyesight. We can see things that are dark and light, and we can see color," said Sam. Lois pointed to another cage. "I recognize this snake," she said. "It's a king cobra." "And look," said Sam, "way down at the other end of the snake house. It's a giant boa constrictor. I really want to get a close look at that snake." "Wait," said Lois. "That's another eyesight fact. We can see things that are near and far. Now we have lots of facts about eyesight. Let's go see the boa constrictor. It's my favorite snake." At the end of the day, Lois and Sam thanked Ms. Gordon. "You were right, Ms. Gordon," said Sam. "We did our work, and we had fun at the zoo." "And you learned a lot about one of your senses," Ms. Gordon replied. "Your eyes are very important. They take in light and send messages about the light to your brain." "Messages about color, movement, and distance?" Lois asked. "Yes," said Ms. Gordon. "And whether something is beside us. That's when we use peripheral vision," added Sam. "Yes, that too," smiled Ms. Gordon. "Can you name the other four senses?" "Hearing, tasting," Lois began. "Smelling and feeling," finished Sam. As they walked away from the zoo gates, Lois said, "I had fun. Did you, Sam?" "You bet," Sam answered. "I can't wait until our next assignment."
