Jeff gripped the chain. With one quick push of the pedal the chain wrapped around the gear. "There," he said to his friend Mike. "Now try it." Mike rode the bicycle down the driveway and circled back toward Jeff. "Gee, thanks," he said. "It's like a brand new bike." Jeff grinned. He liked fixing things. Then he looked up just in time to see his new puppy running up the hill. "Mom," he cried. "There goes Puddles. Can we go after him on our bikes?" Jeff's mom looked out the window. "Yes. But come home in time to do your homework. Remember, you must turn in your ideas for your science fair project tomorrow." The boys jumped on their bikes and headed up the hill. They saw Puddles up ahead. His golden ears flopped up and down as he ran over the hilltop. The boys pushed harder on the pedals as they climbed the steep hill. "Change your gears, Mike," yelled Jeff. Jeff watched as Mike's chain slipped over a larger gear. "Thanks, Jeff. That makes pedaling much easier." At the top of the hill the boys stopped to catch their breath. Mike was puzzled. "Jeff, why did shifting make it easier to pedal?" "I don't know. It's got something to do with the gears," answered Jeff. "I'm just glad that we won't need to pedal so hard going down the hill." The boys looked down the hill. Below they could see the roller coaster in the new amusement park. The park was called Fun Station. "Look at those hills, Mike. I'll bet we would need some big gears to climb them!" "And strong legs, too!" added Mike. Jeff looked down at the Fun Station fence. There was Puddles digging under the gate. "Oh, no," he groaned. "Mom said that Fun Station was off limits until it opens next summer." The boys coasted down the hill. All their uphill pedaling paid off. Jeff wondered how fast they were going, and he imagined how fast they could go on the roller coaster. Jeff and Mike squeezed their hand brakes to slow down.  When they reached the fence, Jeff dropped to his knees. He peered through the hole.  Puddles was nowhere in sight. "Puddles! Puddles!" Mike and Jeff shouted, but Puddles did not return. Then, over the sounds of the workers, they heard a familiar bark. From the other side of the fence a woman spoke. "Have you lost your dog?" "Yes," cried Jeff. "Do you have Puddles?" "Well," said the woman. "I don't know if it's Puddles, but I have a friendly little cocker spaniel here." "That's Puddles," cried Jeff. "Can you make him come back through this hole?" The woman laughed. "Here, it will be easier for Puddles if I open the gate." In a few minutes, Puddles was in Jeff's arms. Jeff hugged him hard.  Puddles wiggled to get free, but Jeff wasn't about to let him escape again. Jeff looked up at the woman. "Thank you for bringing Puddles out." "No problem," said the young woman. "My name's Lisa. I'm one of the engineers building the Great Gravity Machine. I was playing & with Puddles when I heard you call." "What's the Great Gravity Machine?" asked Jeff. "That's the name of the roller coaster." Lisa pointed toward the big steel hills. "Wow! It's huge!" said Mike. "I can see why they call it Great. But what about 'Gravity'?" "Well, gravity is a force. A force pushes or pulls things," explained Lisa. "On a roller coaster, the cars are attached to a chain that wraps around gears. When an engine turns the gears, the chain pulls the cars up the first hill. The first hill is always the highest one.  When the cars reach the top, the force of gravity pulls them down the hill. When they reach the bottom, the cars are going fast enough to get up the next hill by themselves." "Yeah," Jeff nodded. "Gravity is why we coasted so fast down the hill on our bikes." "That's right," Lisa replied. "Your bicycle and the roller coaster both use gravity. But there is one big difference. Your bike has pedals. The coaster cars have no pedals and no engine. The roller coaster is made of several simple machines. Simple machines have only one or two parts. One simple machine is an inclined plane. That's just another name for a ramp." "Is a ramp a machine?" asked Mike. "Sure," said Lisa. "A machine is anything that helps you do things more easily. Suppose that you had to climb straight up from the ground to the top of that roller coaster hill." "That would be tough," said Jeff. "It's much easier for a roller coaster to climb a ramp than to go straight up," explained Lisa. Then Mike had an idea. "Our bikes go up hill. Are they machines?" Lisa nodded. "Your bike is made of several simple machines. The pedals help you turn the wheels. The pedals are part of a simple machine called the wheel and axle. The hand brakes are simple machines called levers." "How about the gears?" asked Mike. "You're right. Gears are also simple machines," answered Lisa. Just then Puddles jumped from Jeff's arms. Jeff caught the puppy and clipped on his leash. "I guess Puddles thinks it's time to go home," laughed Jeff. Puddles pulled at his leash while the boys thanked Lisa. "You're very welcome," she said. "Come back this summer and let me know how you like the roller coaster ride." As the boys turned toward home, Mike thought about his homework. "I know what I'm going to do for the science fair," he announced. "I'm going to figure out how the gears work on my bike." Jeff smiled. He planned to build a roller coaster for his car collection. He'd call it "The Little Gravity Machine."
