That Monday Ruth leaned back in the warm grass. She could see a cloud dragon.  Suddenly a door slammed.  "Doc is home!" Ruth said, jumping to her feet.  Doctor Bell lived next door. Doc liked to ride in balloons. Doc took her big balloon to the park. Her friends always helped to fill the balloon with air, then to heat the air so the balloon would rise. Doc would climb into a large basket tied to the balloon. Then the balloon would lift Doc high toward the clouds. Ruth found Doc by her garage. She was looking at her big thermometer. Ruth knew that the thermometer measures the temperature of the air. As the air warms, the red liquid in the glass tube rises. As the air cools, the red liquid in the tube falls.  "Balloons are hard to fly," said doc. "You need the right kind of weather." She looked at the sky. "Let's see what the clouds tell us about the weather." Ruth laughed. "How can the clouds tell us anything?" Doc pointed to the fluffy white clouds in the sky. "Those are cumulus clouds. They tell us that fair weather is here. Fair weather is balloon weather," said Doc. Ruth smiled. "They look like balls of cotton." Doc showed Ruth pictures of the other kinds of clouds. "Cirrus clouds, high in the sky, are thin, white, and curly. They tell me that the weather might & change in about a day." "So, cumulus clouds mean it's nice out, and cirrus clouds mean change," said Ruth. "A third kind of cloud to look for is stratus," said Doc. "It is a thick, low cloud that covers the sky. Fog is a stratus cloud near the ground."  "What are clouds made of?" asked Ruth.  "Clouds are made of tiny drops of water or bits of ice," Doc explained. "I have an idea," she said suddenly. "You watch the clouds this week. When the weather is right, we'll go for a balloon ride." Ruth asked her parents if she could go, and they said 'yes'. She couldn't wait! The next morning Ruth saw fog. The sky was filled with thick, low clouds. "Stratus clouds," she said. "No balloon ride today." On Wednesday the sun was shining. Ruth dressed in a rush and ran to find Doc.  She opened the back door. She saw Mr. Hill's flag flapping in the wind. She thought about being blown across the sky in the big balloon.  "I can see why balloonists don't go up in the wind!" she thought. It wasn't balloon weather after all.  Early Thursday morning Ruth called Doc. "There's no rain or wind. The weather is just right. There are only a few cumulus clouds in the sky!"  "You're right, Ruth," said Doc. "Let's go!"  At the park, Ruth watched the big orange balloon fill with air. It got bigger and bigger. The balloon looked like a big pumpkin to Ruth.  "IT'S A PUMPKIN BALLOON!" she shouted. Doc helped her climb into the basket. Doc's friends untied the ropes. Slowly the balloon rose.  Ruth's eyes got very big. "I feel just like a bird!" The pumpkin balloon floated over the land. It floated above Ruth's school. It floated above Mr. Hill's flag. It was so nice to be up high. But in less than an hour, the wind began to blow.  "We'd better land now," said Doc. Ruth didn't mind. She'd had a great time. Soon, the big pumpkin balloon was back on the ground. "Thank you very much, Doc," said Ruth. "Sure," Doc replied. "I like having company. Would you like to go up again?"  "Oh, yes!" said Ruth.  What a good day it had been! Now Ruth would watch the sky every day. She could hardly wait for a clear, blue sky or some cumulus clouds without any wind. Then it would be time for another ride in the pumpkin balloon. 
