Ramon and Rita sat on the back porch of their new home. They had moved to the country just two weeks ago. Ramon still missed the city. He missed their old school. He missed playing with his friends on their street. Rita finished tying string onto a kite. "What a great day for flying a kite." She smiled at her brother. "Just listen to the wind in the trees." "I hate the country," Ramon said. "It's too quiet here." "It's not so quiet," said Rita. "There are lots of sounds. They're just not the same kinds of sounds that you hear in New York. Just listen, Ramon." Ramon listened. He heard birds singing.  He heard cowbells ringing from the farm down the road. He heard the soft sound of wind blowing through the trees. Then they heard something strange. "What was that?" asked Rita. "I don't know." Ramon looked around the porch. He saw nothing but some empty bottles. "I think the house is groaning," whispered Rita. "Maybe it's the wind," said Ramon. "The sound stops when the wind stops. It starts when the wind blows." "It's the house that's making the noise. I don't like it, Ramon," said Rita. The wind blew. They heard the sound again. This time, Ramon knew what it was. Ramon walked over to the empty bottles on the porch, and Rita followed. He picked up a bottle and blew across the top of it. There it was - that strange sound! "So that's what's been making those odd noises," said a voice behind them. Their mother was standing at the door. "Why does the bottle make that sound, Mom?" asked Rita. She felt silly for thinking that the house had groaned. "Come inside," said their mother. "We can talk while I work." Ramon and Rita picked up the bottles and followed their mother into the house. Several boxes sat on the kitchen floor. Mom was taking dishes out of one box and putting them away. "When you blow across the top of a bottle," Mom explained, "the air inside the bottle vibrates." "What does vibrate mean?" asked Ramon. "Well, the air inside the bottle moves back and forth very quickly," Mom answered. "These movements are called vibrations." Dad came into the room. "Look, kids," he said. "I can show you what vibrations are." He held a rubber band in his hand. Dad pulled the rubber band tight between two fingers. "Pull the rubber band, Rita," he said, "and then let it go." Ramon watched. Rita pulled the rubber band and let it go. It moved quickly. It made a funny sound. "Did you see the rubber band vibrate?" asked Dad. "It moved back and forth very fast, and it made the air around it move very fast." "The air moving back and forth, those movements are vibrations, right?" asked Ramon. "And vibrations make the sounds, right?" asked Rita. Mom smiled. "You're both right!" she said. "Those vibrations move through the air into our ears," Mom explained. "Our ears send a message to our brain. And that's how we hear sounds." Rita picked up a bottle. It was shorter than the others. She blew across the top of it. "That bottle sounds like a whistle!" said Ramon. "That's right," said Dad. "A tall bottle makes a deep sound. There is more room inside it for the air to vibrate. A shorter bottle makes a higher sound. It has less room inside for the air to vibrate." "Dad," said Ramon, "we have many sizes of bottles. Will they all make different sounds?" "Let's try them," said Dad. Each bottle made a different sound. "I told you there were lots of things to hear around here," joked Rita. Then a new sound filled the room. "It's thunder," said Mom. "There must be a storm coming." "We'd better shut the windows." Ramon and Rita raced to close the windows. Dad closed the door. They finished just in time. The wind started blowing harder. Suddenly the house really did begin to groan! Everyone looked around. "Where is that awful noise coming from?" asked Mom. "I never heard a sound like that in New York," Rita whispered. Ramon was standing near the fireplace when they heard the groan again. "I think it's coming from the fireplace," he said. "The fireplace is making that spooky sound!" The wind slowed down for a moment. The house became quiet again. Rita began to laugh. "It's not spooky," she said. "It's just the chimney. The chimney is like a giant bottle. When the wind blows over it, the air inside vibrates." "And because it's so tall, it makes a really deep sound," Ramon added. "I think Ramon and Rita are right," laughed Mom. As if to prove what they had said, the wind blew again. The house groaned.
