Maya walked slowly from the spaceship and took a deep breath. All the kids from Maya's planet came to Matterdome at the end of every school year. Each year they got a different problem. They had to solve the problem to enter the next grade. This was Maya's first trip. She had been wondering about her problem all year. Today she would find out. Maya opened her envelope and read her problem: You must find three forms of water. Hint: Use what you know about matter.  "Hmmm," Maya said. She spoke to her robot computer. "Define matter." The robot computer buzzed and blinked. Words appeared on its screen: Matter: Anything that takes up space and has mass. "Well," Maya thought. "I know that water takes up space and has mass. So water must be matter."  Maya heard her teacher, Ms. Wong. Her voice came from a loudspeaker on the spaceship. "Get started, students. You only have two hours to solve your problems." Maya opened her map of Matterdome and looked at it. She circled the places that she thought might have water. Then she turned on her jet pack, waved at the spaceship, and flew off. As she flew, Maya thought about her problem. "I must find three forms of water. Water is matter. Can matter have more than one form?" Again, Maya spoke to her robot. "List forms of matter." The robot's screen flashed the answer: Matter can be a solid, a liquid, or a gas. "Water is matter," Maya thought. "It must have three forms, too. I must find water as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. I know where there's liquid water." She flew to the Lake of Tears and landed on its shore. She took a jar from her pack and the robot filled it. "That's liquid water," she said. "Now I need the two other forms." Maya checked the map and flew toward the Frozen Mountains. Maya arrived at the Frozen Mountains and landed at the bottom of an ice cliff. She shut off her jet pack and spoke to her robot. "Question: What is ice?" The robot blinked: Ice is a solid. It is frozen water." "Hey, this isn't so hard," Maya smiled. "Ice is the second form of water!" She picked up a rock and broke off a piece of ice. She dropped the ice into a plastic bag. "Now I need to find a third form of water," she thought. "What can it be?" She looked at the map again. Both Slimy Swamp and Steaming Springs looked like good places to find water. Steaming Springs was closer. "I'll go there first," Maya decided. She turned on the jet pack and flew off to the Springs. Time was running out. Maya landed in Steaming Springs. She spoke to her robot once again. "Question: What is steam?" The robot buzzed. Steam is a gas. It is water in a gas form. "Steam is the third form of water! I've found it!" Maya told the robot to fill a plastic bag with steam. The bag filled like a balloon. Maya sealed the mouth of the bag. "Now, back to the ship!" she cried. When Maya got back to the ship, Ms. Wong was outside waiting for her. She smiled. "Oh Maya, I was worried about you. Did you solve your problem?" "Yes, Ms. Wong," replied Maya. "It was easy!" "Really?" the teacher asked. "Yes!" Maya said, "I learned that matter has three forms: solid, liquid, and gas. Water is matter. I found three forms of water to solve my problem."  Maya opened her pack. She pulled out the jar. "Here is the liquid water." Then she took out a plastic bag. "And here is steam, the gas-" Maya was shocked.  The plastic bag didn't look like a balloon anymore. It held only a few drops of water. "What about the third form?" asked Ms. Wong. Maya didn't know what to say. The other plastic bag held only liquid water, too. "What happened?" she cried. "I really did find three different forms of water. Now I have only one." Ms. Wong laughed. "It's OK, Maya. You've learned something else about matter. When you heat or cool matter, it can change form. Heat melted the solid ice. The steam cooled and became liquid." "You mean I passed?" asked Maya in surprise. "Yes, you did," answered Ms. Wong. Maya ran happily into the spaceship. She was wondering what next year's problem would be.
